Dignity and
equality
Pay gap (%, #)
1. Mean pay gap of basic salary and remuneration of full-time
relevant employees based on gender (women to men)
and indicators of diversity (e.g. BAME to non-BAME) at a
company level or by significant location of operation.
2. Ratio of the annual total compensation for the organization’s
highest-paid individual in each country of significant operations
to the median annual total compensation for all employees
(excluding the highest-paid individual) in the same country.
Adapted from
UK Government
guidance on
gender and
ethnicity pay gap
reporting,44
GRI 102-38
Rationale
The pay gap metric is considered a potential indicator of organizational structural inequality and underrepresentation of disadvantaged groups in senior and higher paid roles. Research has shown that women
and people from ethnic minorities tend to earn less and be in less-senior roles. This is often associated
with social disadvantage and is arguably also caused by discrimination. A migrant workforce may have
a poor command of the local language, possess qualifications that are not generally recognized by
employers and be unfamiliar with the regional culture; these factors affect pay and position. Addressing
this issue will create pathways towards a greater variety of roles in the workforce and will positively change
how businesses promote talent and distribute pay at all levels.
A wide gap between the highest-paid individual and the median reinforces inequality and could impede
long-term value creation. Depending on how the organization is structured, it can become a crucial factor
in enabling investors to make appropriate decisions.
Additional commentary
Guidance on the requirements and the gender pay gap calculation method is provided by the UK Government
Equalities Office as well as by other organizations such as the UK Chartered Institute of Personnel and
Development (CIPD). Companies should apply the same methodology to calculate an ethnicity pay gap, being
the difference in the average rate of pay between BAME (or other relevant ethnic categorization) workers and
non-BAME workers expressed as a percentage of the pay of non-BAME workers.
Companies should disclose the ratio of the annual total compensation for the organization’s highestpaid individual in each country of significant operations to the median annual total compensation for
all employees (excluding the highest-paid individual) in the same country. Calculate by considering the
median annual compensation of all employees at each level.