Skills for the
future
Training provided (#, $)
1. Average hours of training per person that the organization’s
employees have undertaken during the reporting period, by
gender and employee category (total number of hours of training
provided to employees divided by the number of employees).
2. Average training and development expenditure per full time
employee (total cost of training provided to employees
divided by the number of employees).
GRI 404-1,
SASB HC 101-
15
Rationale
A skilled workforce improves a company’s performance, contributes to employee satisfaction and
enhances human capital. It is a key priority for all companies today. When firms fail to invest in training,
education, skilling and reskilling of their workforce, it can affect their business performance, reputation
and ability to attract talent. It can also lead to higher operating costs related to recruiting, developing and
retaining employees. The quantum of training needs to be a healthy mix that helps employees to upskill,
learn and review issues that are industry-relevant. Providing the right mix of training to employees on
technical and behavioural aspects will nurture business growth and help develop a competitive edge.
Additional commentary
1. Report average hours of training that company employees have undertaken during the reporting
period, by gender and employee category. In the context of this metric, training refers to:
– All types of vocational training and instruction
– Paid educational leave provided by an organization for its employees
– Training or education pursued externally, paid for in whole or in part by an organization
– Training on specific topics
– Reskilling of employees as per market requirements
– Note: training does not include on-site coaching by supervisors
2. Provide information on the training and development expenditure per full time employee. This
includes the expenditure for professional qualifications (such as credentialing programmes and board
certification), advanced industry education (such as degree and certificate programmes directly related
to job function) and all other categories of training, as mentioned above.