Stakeholder
engagement
Material issues impacting stakeholders
A list of the topics that are material to key stakeholders and
the company, how the topics were identified and how the
stakeholders were engaged.
GRI 102-21,
GRI 102-43,
GRI 102-47
Rationale
This disclosure highlights the importance of the relationship between what is material to a firm and to
its stakeholders; it captures the output of a process to understand the impact of the company on its
stakeholders and the implications for the company.
Additional commentary
As organizations shift to becoming more purpose-led, so too will the definition and understanding of longterm value. The current shareholder-centric view of performance and value is already evolving into a more
holistic understanding of an organization’s impacts on a broad range of stakeholders. For this shift to have
a real impact, an organization needs to understand how its stakeholders are most affected by its decisions
and how this affects the business.
Conducting a materiality analysis is a vital step in understanding how an organization impacts its key
stakeholders and the implications for the business. It requires a company-specific identification of key
stakeholders and engagement with them to determine how they are affected by the company’s decisions
and actions. Explaining the steps required to undertake a materiality analysis (i.e. listing all identified
material topics and detailing how they impact stakeholders and company) and the process to identify and
engage with stakeholders helps validate the output.
The concept of materiality, as defined in this paper, guides prioritization, ensuring the disclosure is relevant
to stakeholders and the company. This disclosure facilitates board-level oversight of this critical area. It is
a means of maintaining accountability to a range of stakeholder groups, helping ensure that organizational
impact and long-term value align with the interests of a broad range of stakeholders and provide the
foundation for trust in the business. One possible way to disclose material issues impacting stakeholders
is through a “materiality matrix”.35