Health and
well‑being
Health and safety (%)
The number and rate of fatalities as a result of work-related
injury; high-consequence work-related injuries (excluding
fatalities); recordable work-related injuries; main types of workrelated injury; and the number of hours worked.
An explanation of how the organization facilitates workers’
access to non-occupational medical and healthcare services,
and the scope of access provided for employees and workers.
GRI:2018
403-9a&b,
GRI:2018
403-6a
Rationale
Maintaining strong standards of health, safety and labour rights can improve employee productivity
and operational efficiency and enhance employee well-being. Working proactively in these areas of
business will help identify and mitigate potential risks, and it is increasingly required by law. Mental
health and emotional wellbeing, as components of overall worker health and safety, are becoming
increasingly important to drive innovation and deliver goods and services that are reliant on human capital.
Organizations that invest in non-occupational medical and healthcare services would demonstrate to their
employees that they care and look after them. This would result in a purposeful, resilient and growthoriented workforce.
Additional commentary
1. For all employees and workers who are not employees but whose work and/or workplace is controlled
by the organization, report the following:
– The number and rate of fatalities as a result of work-related injury
– The number and rate of high-consequence work-related injuries (excluding fatalities)
– The number and rate of recordable work-related injuries
– The main types of work-related injury
– The number of hours worked
For calculation for the rate of work-related injury, high consequence work-related injuries and recordable
work-related injuries refer to GRI:2018 403-9 for guidance.
2. Provide an explanation of how the organization facilitates workers’ access to non-occupational medical
and healthcare services, and the scope of access provided for all employees and workers. Employees’
and workers’ access to non-occupational medical and healthcare services might be facilitated through,
for example, company clinics, disease treatment programmes, referral systems, health insurance or
financial contributions.
When describing the scope of access to non-occupational medical and healthcare services provided,
specify the types of service to which access is facilitated and the types of workers that have access to
them. 