Ethical behaviour Anti-corruption
1. Total percentage of governance body members, employees
and business partners who have received training on the
organization’s anti-corruption policies and procedures,
broken down by region.
2. a) Total number and nature of incidents of corruption
confirmed during the current year, but related to previous
years
b) Total number and nature of incidents of corruption
confirmed during the current year, related to this year.
3. Discussion of initiatives and stakeholder engagement to
improve the broader operating environment and culture, in
order to combat corruption.
GRI 205-2,
GRI 205-3
Rationale
Corruption undermines stakeholder legitimacy and trust; it is linked to misallocation of capital,
environmental harm, human exploitation and unethical and illegal behaviour.
Anti-corruption training and investment in initiatives to improve both operating environment and culture
develop a company’s anti-corruption capabilities. The total number and nature of corruption incidents are
a proxy for the effectiveness of a company’s overarching anti-corruption culture and capabilities.
Additional commentary
Corporate corruption can thrive where governance is weak. The public expects companies to adhere to
ethical business practices. Companies implementing anti-corruption policies and practices contribute
directly towards the vision of SDG 16.5 to “substantially reduce corruption and bribery in all their forms”,
protecting their own long-term value and their contribution to long-term societal value.
Monitoring the number and proportion of new corruption incidents unrelated to previous years, in
comparison to incidents related to previous years, provides some insight into changes over time of
this effectiveness. These metrics were chosen for their orientation to outcomes and their comparability
between companies and over time.
Reporting organizations will need to be mindful of local laws, which can shape or constrain the way the
standard cited here as a guideline is implemented.