Nature loss Land use and ecological sensitivity
Report for operations (if applicable) and full supply chain
(if material):
1. Area of land used for the production of basic plant, animal or
mineral commodities (e.g. the area of land used for forestry,
agriculture or mining activities).
2. Year-on-year change in the area of land used for the
production of basic plant, animal or mineral commodities.
Note: Supply-chain figures can initially be estimated where
necessary based on the mass of each commodity used
and the average mass produced per unit of land in different
sourcing locations.
3. Percentage of land area in point 1 above or of total
plant, animal and mineral commodity inputs by mass or
cost, covered by a sustainability certification standard or
formalized sustainable management programme. Disclose
the certification standards or description of sustainable
management programmes along with the percentage of
total land area, mass or cost covered by each certification
standard/programme.
New metric
Rationale
Growth in demand for land is the primary underlying driver of new conversions of ecosystems, which is
in turn the primary driver of nature loss. The overall area of land used in operations and supply chains
reflects the contribution of the current business model to overall demand for land; and the year-on-year
change indicates whether the company is currently contributing to increasing or decreasing pressure for
new conversions of ecosystems. The proportion covered by a sustainability certification standard or other
formalized sustainable management programme is an indicator of how much of the land used is being
actively managed for long-term value creation.
Additional commentary
In addition to companies with significant agricultural, forestry or mining operations, this metric is likely to
be material to long-term value creation for any companies that rely on a significant volume of inputs from
agricultural or forestry systems. Sustainability certification standards or formalized sustainable management
programmes are the primary ways to ensure that any land which must be used for production is used in a
way that maintains or improves its quality and minimizes any adverse production impacts.