Dignity and
equality
Wage level (%)
1. Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to
local minimum wage.
2. Ratio of the annual total compensation of the CEO to the
median of the annual total compensation of all its employees,
except the CEO.
GRI 202-1,
Adapted from
Dodd-Frank
Act, US SEC
Regulations
Rationale
Fair compensation and benefits contribute to the economic well-being of employees, since the distribution
of wages and income is crucial for eliminating inequality and poverty. A wide gap between the highestpaid individual and the median reinforces inequality and could impede long-term value creation. Focus
on pay ratios improves corporate governance and will help ensure that CEO pay is fair and appropriate
in relation to the rest of the workforce. Disclosure will provide greater insight into how companies are
spending on top-management, their basis for doing so and the opportunity costs that might impact their
performance (e.g. investment in research and development or staff training) and therefore encourage the
organization to raise compensation for low- and middle-income employees.
Additional commentary
The organization should disclose this indicator for employees who are compensated based on wages
subject to minimum wage rules. It can report the relevant ratio of entry-level wage to minimum wage by
gender at significant locations of operations. If a local minimum wage is absent or variable at significant
locations of operation, by gender, use different minimums as a reference and report which minimum is
used for calculating the ratio.
Executive compensation disclosure rules require companies to disclose the ratio of the annual total
compensation of the CEO to the median of the annual total compensation of all its employees, except the
CEO. To identify the median compensation of all the employees, companies can select a methodology
based on their own facts and circumstances. A company could, for example, identify the median of
its population or sample using annual total compensation as determined under existing executive
compensation rules, or any consistently applied compensation measure from compensation amounts
reported in its payroll or tax records.