Climate change TCFD implementation
Fully implement the recommendations of the Task Force on
Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD). If necessary,
disclose a timeline of at most three years for full implementation.
Disclose whether you have set, or have committed to set, GHG
emissions targets that are in line with the goals of the Paris
Agreement – to limit global warming to well below 2°C above
pre-industrial levels and pursue efforts to limit warming to 1.5°C
– and to achieve net-zero emissions before 2050.
Recommendations
of the TCFD;
CDSB R01, R02,
R03, R04 and
R06;
SASB 110;
Science Based
Targets initiative
Rationale
The TCFD recommendations are already established as the primary framework for disclosure of
information on the management of climate-related risks and opportunities in main annual filings. Elevating
disclosure of metrics relating to people, planet, prosperity and principles of governance into main annual
filings is a key objective of this initiative and we therefore lend our full support to broader adoption of the
TCFD recommendations. Additionally, we emphasise the importance of GHG emissions targets that are in
line with the goals of the Paris Agreement.

Additional commentary
The Financial Stability Board established the TCFD because of concerns that companies were not
adequately measuring or reporting the financial implications of climate change. TCFD recommends that
listed companies disclose these financial impacts as part of their annual financial filings, aligned to the
legislative thresholds of financial disclosure.
The TCFD has developed recommendations on climate change disclosure in an annually updated,
publicly available report which is applicable for all sectors. The recommendations cover climate strategy,
governance, risk management and metrics and targets. As part of their risk management, companies
must identify and measure the financial implications of their material risks and opportunities under at least
two widely recognized climate scenarios.
The TCFD also provides a structure to help organizations develop a climate strategy and governance
arrangements to mitigate risk and take action on opportunities. The TCFD framework has achieved
significant uptake since launch and regulatory momentum is building globally; for example, more than
1,000 global organizations have declared their support for TCFD,38 the UK Prudential Regulation Authority
(PRA) has set out expectations for banks and insurers to report on climate risk, and reporting is now
mandatory for signatories to the UN-supported Principles for Responsible Investment network (UNPRI)
(responsible for assets of $103 trillion). Financial institutions responsible for assets worth over $139 trillion
have already announced their support for TCFD.
The framework provides flexibility for setting metrics and targets but recommends that an emissions target
is set using the risk analysis under the business’s relevant climate scenarios. This supports companies
setting meaningful science-based targets in line with achieving net zero.
The Climate Disclosure Standards Board (CDSB) and Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB)
have produced a joint TCFD Implementation Guide39 and related set of Good Practices40 for the reporting
of climate-related performance and risk in mainstream corporate reports in line with the TCFD framework.
And in 2019, the World Economic Forum issued a set of climate governance principles for boards of
directors. Developed in collaboration with PwC, these principles are designed to help increase directors’
climate awareness, embed climate issues into board structures and processes, and improve navigation of
the risks and opportunities that climate change poses to business.41