Dignity and
equality
Human rights review, grievance impact and modern
slavery (#, %)
1. Total number and percentage of operations that have been
subject to human rights reviews or human rights impact
assessments, by country.
2. Number and type of grievances reported with associated
impacts related to a salient human rights issue in the
reporting period and an explanation on type of impacts.
3. Number and percentage of operations and suppliers
considered to have significant risk for incidents of child
labour, forced or compulsory labour. Such risks could
emerge in relation to:
a) type of operation (such as manufacturing plant) and type
of supplier; or
b) countries or geographic areas with operations and
suppliers considered at risk.
GRI 412-1,
UN Guiding
Principles,
Adapted from
GRI 408-1a and
GRI 409-1,
WDI 7.5
Rationale
Organizational activities may cause or contribute to an environment of social abuse that violates the human
rights of individuals, workers and communities. Without a mechanism for employees and other key stakeholders
to report human rights violations, companies could miss opportunities to identify and mitigate such underlying
issues. Companies that encourage stakeholders to provide feedback can respond more quickly to misconduct,
build trust with them and prevent harm to long-term value. Eliminating forced labour remains an important
challenge as it perpetuates poverty and is a hindrance to economic and human development. Companies that
associate with modern slavery in any form will damage their reputation, brand and even licence to operate. It is
extremely important for companies to engage with this topic and assess the risk across their value chain.
Additional commentary
1. Disclose information on the total number and percentage of operations that have been subject to
human rights reviews or human rights impact assessments, by country. For additional information refer
to GRI 412-1. Perform human rights due diligence across the value chain to report on this aspect.
2. Disclose information related to grievances, including number and type of grievances reported, with
associated impacts related to a salient human rights issues in the reporting period. Additionally,
disclose the types of impacts that occurred (both direct and indirect). Mention any monetary losses
associated with these impacts.
3. Disclose information on the number and percentage of operations and suppliers considered to be at
significant risk of incidents of child, forced or compulsory labour by type of operation and supplier;
and by countries or geographic areas with operations and suppliers considered at risk. To ensure the
accuracy and mitigate the risk, perform risk assessments across upstream and downstream activities.
