Quality of
governing body
Governance body composition
Composition of the highest governance body and its committees
by: competencies relating to economic, environmental and
social topics; executive or non-executive; independence; tenure
on the governance body; number of each individual’s other
significant positions and commitments, and the nature of the
commitments; gender; membership of under-represented social
groups; stakeholder representation.
GRI 102-22,
GRI 405-1a,
IR 4B
Rationale
The capabilities and perspectives of board members are important for making robust decisions on an
ongoing basis. This disclosure captures a variety of important dimensions to composition, going beyond a
single metric, and emphasizes competencies relating to economic, environmental and social topics.
Additional commentary
Research examining public companies across Canada, Latin America, the UK and the US has found
that companies with higher diversity financially outperform their peers.33 Crucially, boards that reflect
the diversity of their companies’ stakeholders are more attuned to their needs and are therefore wellpositioned to deliver long-term stakeholder value. This necessitates the inclusion of traditionally underrepresented social groups (see Glossary for definition of “under-represented social groups”). Although
these groups will vary based on a company’s context, it is important to consider racial and ethnic diversity.
This disclosure was chosen on the basis that it captures a breadth of dimensions critical to governance
body composition, including competencies related to economic, environmental and social topics.
Single measures of governance body composition are insufficient to determine whether a particular
corporation has the board fit for its particular needs. Practices for achieving greater diversity of board
member backgrounds and capabilities are relatively universal and well-established, and the disclosure is
comparatively easy to observe.
Reporting organizations will choose how to report based on materiality, as defined in this paper.
Additionally, reporting organizations will need to be mindful of local laws, which can shape or constrain the
way the standard cited here as a guideline is implemented. One possible and established way to consider
the diversity of skills represented on the governing body is through presentation of board member
qualifications, backgrounds and experiences in a “skills matrix”.3