ESG Reporting Guide
ESG REPORTING
GUIDE FOR
AUSTRALIAN
COMPANIES
2015
ABOUT FSC
The Financial Services Council (FSC) has over 115 members
representing Australia’s retail and wholesale funds
management businesses, superannuation funds, life insurers,
financial advisory networks, licensed trustee companies and
public trustees. The industry is responsible for investing more
than $2.6 trillion on behalf of 11.5 million Australians. The pool
of funds under management is larger than Australia’s GDP
and the capitalisation of the Australian Securities Exchange
and is the third largest pool of managed funds in the world.
The Financial Services Council promotes best practice for the
financial services industry by setting mandatory Standards
for its members and providing Guidance Notes to assist in
operational efficiency.
ABOUT ACSI
The Australian Council of Superannuation Investors (ACSI)
represents 29 Australian superannuation funds and six major
international pension funds with a combined $1.5 trillion under
management.
We help our members manage long-term investment risks, in
the belief that companies with good ESG practices are, over time,
more sustainable and provide better risk-adjusted returns. ACSI
engages strongly and constructively with major listed companies
on ESG issues; provides vital research, policy and voting advice
for our members; and interacts with the regulators to ensure
markets are focused on the long term benefits of investors.
Our mission is to enhance the sustainable and enduring value of
the retirement savings entrusted to our members.
01.
PAGE 04. Background
PAGE 03. Welcome and introduction
PAGE 04. 1. Why use the Guide?
PAGE 07. 2. Getting started and following through
PAGE 11. 3. Application of the Guide
PAGE 18. 4. Conclusion
PAGE 19. 5. Resources
CONTENTS

03.
The Australian Council of Superannuation Investors
(ACSI) and the Financial Services Council (FSC)
are pleased to provide this update to the ESG
Reporting Guide for Australian Companies.
Investment managers (represented by the FSC) and
asset owners (represented by ACSI) recognise that
environmental, social and governance (ESG) factors are
of vital importance to the financial performance of the
companies in which they invest both in the short and long
term.
While there are a variety of ESG factors at play at any
given time, it is unquestionable that many of these factors
impact on the ability of companies and their investors to
achieve sustainable growth and prosperity.
Institutional investors and companies seek to find
common ground to define the ways in which ESG factors
influence their shared goals. They require a shared
understanding of how to report on ESG factors and their
financial materiality.
This Guide has been updated for this purpose.
Investors need accurate, timely and comparable information
to identify and manage exposure to ESG investment risks.
Such information assists investment managers to decide
the selection and holding of stocks in their portfolios, and
in their investable universe. This information also prompts
investment managers, broker analysts and asset owners
(principally superannuation funds) to constructively engage
with companies on these matters.
Companies need consistency in the information required
by institutional investors, and for reporting obligations not
to impose undue costs, competitive disadvantages or
other commercial burdens.
Recognising both perspectives, ACSI and the FSC
have jointly updated this Guide to highlight the types
of information needed by our member organisations to
understand, price, analyse and manage ESG investment
risks.
This Guide is designed to complement the reporting
requirements of other best practice guides such
as the ASX Corporate Governance Principles and
Recommendations, and the existing best practice guides
issued by each of our Councils.
We look forward to continuing improvements in ESG
disclosure levels, consistency and quality of engagement
between Australian companies and their institutional
investors.
WELCOME AND INTRODUCTION
Louise Davidson
CEO, ACSI
Sally Loane
CEO, FSC
AUSTRALIAN COUNCIL OF
SUPERANNUATION INVESTORS
04.
BACKGROUND
In 2011 the Australian Council of Superannuation Investors (“ACSI”) and the Financial Services
Council (“FSC”) published the first edition of the ESG Reporting Guide for Australian Companies
(“The Guide”). The Guide was designed to help companies disclose environmental, social and
governance (“ESG”) risks to investors in a consistent and comparable manner across different
companies and sectors, giving investors and asset owners a fuller understanding of a company’s
risk profile and future growth prospects.
1. WHY USE THE GUIDE?
Since the release of the first guide, ESG disclosure practices
(both in Australia and overseas) have evolved significantly,
due to growing recognition from investors, regulators and
companies about the importance of disclosure of these
issues. Of particular note:
• In Australia, the ASX Corporate Governance
Council Principles & Recommendations (3rd
Edition), published in 2014 and taking effect from the
first full financial year commencing on or after 1 July
2014, includes a new Recommendation 7.4 explicitly
requiring that:
• At an international level, the Global Reporting
Initiative (GRI) in 2013 released its fourth generation
of reporting guidelines (“G4”), listing over 400
indicators on corporate sustainability performance;
• The International Integrated Reporting Council
(IIRC) has issued its <IR> Framework, with many
efforts still underway to harmonise this framework with
traditional financial reporting, accounting standards and
the like at the international level;
• In the United States, the Sustainability Accounting
Standards Board (SASB) has issued standards for
45 industries in 6 sectors. By 2016, standards for
more than 80 industries in 10 sectors will be available;
• The Sustainable Stock Exchanges Initiative
(SSE), co-convened by the UN-supported Principles
for Responsible Investment, the United Nations
Conference on Trade and Development, the United
Nations Environment Programme Finance Initiative
and the UN Global Compact, has launched its Model
Guidance for exchanges to lay out the business case
for reporting ESG information and basic principles to
guide the reporting process.
 While many companies have embraced GRI reporting
over recent years, and some have begun to embrace
the <IR> Framework as well, many other companies
are still unsure of what ESG risks to disclose. This
is especially so among newly-listed companies, and
among those entering market indices such as the
ASX200 or ASX300, which are commonly used
as investment benchmarks by institutional investors
and which generally entail an uplift in disclosure
expectations of institutional investors. The Guide has
been designed to help companies in these categories
meet those investor expectations.
 In 2015, according to recent research undertaken by
ACSI, 13% of ASX200 companies still do not provide
any meaningful reporting on sustainability factors,
while a further 17% provide only a rudimentary level of
disclosure.1
 These results highlight the need for further
practical guidance tailored for Australian companies
and their investor needs, complementing the GRI, <IR>
and other reporting frameworks.
“A listed entity should disclose whether it
has any material exposure to economic,
environmental and social sustainability risks
and, if it does, how it manages or intends to
manage those risks”.
1.1 Link with Existing Governance Guidance
Detailed guidance relating to Australian listed
companies’ corporate governance policies and
practices is already contained in the ASX Corporate
Governance Principles, as well as in ACSI’s regularlyupdated Governance Guidelines.2
This Guide is not intended to replicate or replace anything in
those existing documents relating to core governance issues
such as board structure, diversity, executive remuneration
and the like. Rather, this Guide specifically addresses
institutional investors’ expectations regarding the disclosure
of material company-specific ESG risks and opportunities,
to a level sufficient for investors to fully understand, price
and manage those risks and opportunities. The provision
of this information will assist investors to better understand
and compare company level information, and allow asset
owners (such as superannuation funds) to engage more
constructively with companies on ESG matters.
In this way, the Guide is intended to complement and
enhance the existing body of contemporary corporate
governance best practice material in Australia. In particular,
ACSI and FSC believe the Guide will be of assistance
to listed companies in addressing the new disclosure
requirements of Recommendation 7.4 of the ASX
Principles, noted above.
1.2 A Positive Step for Companies
In addition to providing investors with a more comprehensive
understanding of a company’s risk profile, disclosing
this information is an opportunity for a company’s board
and management to demonstrate strategic thinking for
long-term financial sustainability that goes beyond the
achievement of short-term financial targets. It is for these
reasons we believe companies that provide insightful ESG
disclosure can broaden their potential appeal to providers of
long-term equity capital.
ACSI and the FSC are confident that the views presented in
the Guide will assist companies to streamline their reporting
as well as reduce the volume of ad hoc information requests
that are made by the investor community. Where applicable,
the Guide draws upon various existing sources, including the:
• Global Reporting Initiative3
;
• International Integrated Reporting Council Framework4
;
• Carbon Disclosure Project5
;
• International Corporate Governance Network6
;
• Global Framework for Climate Risk Disclosure7
;
• Sustainable Accounting Standards Board8
; and
• Sustainable Stock Exchanges Initiative.9
These frameworks provide extensive information on
particular aspects of ESG disclosure, and where appropriate,
companies should be aiming to report against them.
We recognise that many companies already publicly
disclose ESG related information described in this
Guide, and in many cases information over and above
the minimum levels suggested. Those companies are
not expected to disclose anything more (or less), but we
do ask that they ensure that their information is readily
accessible.
1.3 Who does this Guide apply to?
The Guide was created to provide a reporting guide
for all Australian listed companies. We recognise that
some companies, especially those at the smaller market
capitalisation end of the market, may find full ESG
disclosure to be a challenge at the beginning of their
reporting journey. However, companies also need to be
aware that the issues raised in the Guide are the base
level of information that investment analysts require to
make stock selection decisions. We encourage these
companies to progressively embrace the principles of risk
reporting as they meet their obligations under Principle 7
of the ASX Corporate Governance Council Principles and
Recommendations.
1.4 How should it be applied?
The format of reporting is at the discretion of the company.
High quality reporting of ESG issues can come in a variety
of forms. The investor bodies publishing this Guide are in
no way seeking to impose uniform templates or disclosure
‘checklists’ on companies. Companies should focus
on providing quality, accurate, consistent and relevant
information on their business operations. Any reporting
should be easy to locate within a company’s communications
such as in the annual report or on the company website.
1.5 When do we expect to see this happen?
Reporting on ESG risks and opportunities should ideally
be released, at or around the time that the annual report
is released and updated throughout the year via website
disclosure as required. Where companies produce a
sustainability report, we strongly encourage announcement
of the release of their sustainability report to the ASX.
1. ACSI (April 2015) Corporate Reporting in Australia, The Sustainability Reporting Journey, Disclosure of sustainability risks among S&P/ASX200 companies. Available at http://acsi.org.au/images/stories/
ACSIDocuments/detailed_research_papers/Sustainability_Reporting_Journey_2015.Apr15.pdf
2. New 2015 edition available at www.acsi,org.au
3. See: https://www.globalreporting.org/Pages/default.aspx for information on the Global Reporting Initiative
4. See: http://integratedreporting.org/ for information on the Integrated Reporting Council Framework
5. See: https://www.cdp.net/login for information on the Carbon Disclosure Project
6. See: https://www.icgn.org/ for information on the International Corporate Governance Network
7. See: http://www.unepfi.org/fileadmin/documents/global_framework.pdf for the Global Framework for Climate Risk Disclosure
8. See http://www.sasb.org/ for Sustainable Accounting Standards information
9. See http://www.sseinitiative.org/exchanges-providing-guidance-on-sustainability-reporting/
05.
2.1 Define your business and operations
Companies should clearly define their business and hence
reporting boundaries in relation to included and excluded
business entities (e.g. subsidiaries and JVs) and activities.
In general, more comprehensive reporting encompassing
the full geographical span of the company’s operations,
subsidiary as well as parent entities, supply chain information
and time-spans beyond the annual report period alone,
are beneficial to investors. As highlighted by a number of
recent examples, ESG risks that manifest in a company’s
supply chain or excluded business entities can still have a
material impact on shareholders.
2.2 Identify your key stakeholders
An important consideration for companies is to think
through who their key stakeholders are and how they will
engage with them and take their concerns and feedback
into consideration. Stakeholders may include employees,
customers, suppliers, distributors, community, unions,
shareholders and governments. It is important to note that
this Guide is designed to meet investor expectations. We
recognise that companies have many other stakeholders.
This Guide does not seek to address the reporting
requirements of other stakeholders.
2.3 Determine what is material
Investors and asset owners strive to understand corporate
business models and strategy, what underlies success,
differentiates them from the competition and issues that
could potentially lead to significant loss of shareholder
value. Useful reporting seeks to identify, measure and
disclose information (including ESG risks) which in
turn informs investors and other stakeholders about
the future sustainability and profitability of a company.
While it is incumbent upon companies to identify material
ESG risks or opportunities, engagement with stakeholders
will be of benefit. A careful review of ESG risks will be
required to assess which risks are impacting or will impact
the business or supply chain and what that impact might be.
Principle 7 of the ASX’s Corporate Governance Principles
and Recommendations requires companies to disclose
‘material’ risks or opportunities.
ESG risks are material, where a reasonable person would
consider the information to have an impact on a company’s
valuation or the sustainability of its operations. The risk(s)
could have an immediate or foreseeable impact on
earnings, an impact on a balance sheet, or an impact on
the sustainability of its operations. This is a useful approach
to consider. More detailed guidance on materiality can be
found in the GRI (G4) Implementation Manual10 and on the
SASB website11.
Thinking about the future business environment or impact of
megatrends on your company may also help you to identify
and determine material issues. Megatrends are major global
societal and transformative forces that present material long
or short term risks and opportunities to companies and their
shareholders. These may include:
• Ageing demographics;
• Urbanisation;
• Digitisation;
• Cybersecurity;
• Climate change;
• Population growth;
• Wealth distribution;
• Water scarcity;
• Material resource scarcity;
• Ecosystem decline; and
• Food security.
Many investors are interested in identifying the long-term
societal and environmental trends that are likely to affect
the businesses in which they invest and understanding
how the board views such issues. This is not about
companies disclosing a forecast about their future value,
but rather a discussion based on all available information
and technology to hand at present, as it relates to scenario
planning for the future. Investors want to understand what
strategies companies have in place to face future business
environments and how these will be managed.
Materiality of ESG risks will vary greatly between companies.
Companies are expected to report on indicators which are
material to their business and strategy.
10. See: https://www.globalreporting.org/resourcelibrary/GRIG4-Part2-Implementation-Manual.pdf for the GRI G4 Implementation Manual
11. See http://www.sasb.org/materiality/sasb-materiality-map/ for the SASB Materiality MapTM visual tools
2. GETTING STARTED AND
FOLLOWING THROUGH
06.
07.
2.4 Identify how to measure and report material risks
Having established what ESG risks are material and
therefore pursuant to ASX Principle 7.4 what disclosure is
required, companies then need to consider how to measure
and report the ESG risks and measures to manage them.
Investors value good quality, accurate, consistent and
relevant ESG information over volumes of marketing material.
Qualitative information is important to capture company
strategies, initiatives and understanding of ESG risks;
however quantitative data is particularly useful. For example
time series/trend data reported consistently year to year.
With regard to quantitative reporting, should companies
change ESG risk reporting methodology, the rationale for
the change should be explained. Companies should provide
current ESG information and targets, as well as report
historical performance against previously-stated targets.
The absence of generally accepted standards for
measuring and presenting environmental, social and
governance metrics creates challenges for investors in
interpreting performance.
Where they do exist, companies should follow
generally accepted standards for measuring and
presenting metrics. There are a number of mandated
key performance indicators (KPI) that companies
are required to report to regulators. For example on
human capital to the Workplace Gender Equality
Agency. Others include measurement of greenhouse
gas and energy information in accordance with the
Measurement Determination under the National
Greenhouse and Energy Reporting Act 2007.
Furthermore, understanding a company’s governance
and accountability mechanisms concerning E and S
issues provides investors with insight as to how the
board and management prioritise such issues. A lack
of disclosure on the governance of E and S issues may
indicate a lack of understanding and awareness of how
material E and S issues may affect the business.
The following is an example of how an ESG disclosure on
the risk of loss of human capital through a poor approach
to diversity may appear in company reporting:
Managing our greatest assets: our people
We believe in our people and are interested in ensuring a workplace that enables good decision making, fosters
innovation and high productivity. Strong diversity policies and practises are an important aspect of our approach to
human capital management – to attract and retain high-quality employees is of vital importance to our business.
How are we managing the gender diversity of our people?
• The company’s Diversity Policy (provide link) encourages retention of female employees through a number
of initiatives including flexible work arrangements, maternity leave, return-to-work financial incentives etc.
• Performance against diversity targets is a performance metric in executive variable compensation (detail
provided).
• The Board has direct oversight over diversity through the following reporting line (detail provided).
08.
% of women in senior management
% of women returning after maternity leave
How are we tracking?
30%
25%
20%
25% Target
Achieved
Achieved
15%
10%
5%
0%
0
2005
11%
2005 2006 2005 2013 2007 2009 2014 2008 2012 2010 2011 2015 2016 2017
2009
14%
2007
12%
2011
15%
2014
17%
2006
11%
2010
15%
2013
17%
2008
13%
2012
17%
2015
18%
30%
25%
20%
15%
10%
5%
35%
40%
 Target
45%
2.5 Report the framework and standards used to
measure ESG risks
Useful information for companies to disclose to investors in
this regard includes:
• Internal processes for identifying and reporting material
 ESG risks, opportunities, targets or goals;
• How such risks and opportunities are reported to
 the Board, senior management and various internal
 committees (e.g. Risk Oversight committees);
• Decision-making frameworks on how material ESG risks
 are managed;
• Person(s) responsible or accountable for ESG related
 issues within the business including at the Executive level
 and/ or Board/ Committee level.
2.5.1 Assurance
Companies could consider disclosing information about
internal assurance processes or consider independent
external assurance to provide investors with a greater
degree of comfort over the integrity of information disclosed.
We review annually our “Disclosure on Sustainable
Management” series of publications. These
publications are prepared in accordance with the
Global Reporting Initiative G4 guidelines.
09.
Companies should describe to investors and other
stakeholders any standards that they have applied to
determine materiality and in the preparation of ESG key
metrics. Where an external standard has not been applied,
companies should detail key definitions and assumptions
used in metrics. A brief ‘basis of preparation’ explanation
should be made available alongside the ESG risk
disclosure. Example statement may include the following:
This Guide broadly divides ESG issues between
environmental, social and governance themes, for ease of
illustrating what may be important for a company to report.
Investors in putting this Guide together are looking
for information on relevant, material investment risks.
Hence reporting will vary significantly across sectors and
companies. The descriptions of these themes and the
metrics suggested for their assessment are not intended to
be exhaustive. Rather, they represent a starting framework
for identification and disclosure of ESG issues, upon which
companies can build to develop a set of disclosures that
reflects what is material for them. Although, we do
not expect all companies to report on all factors, it
is expected that, where material, companies make
every effort to ensure the appropriate level of
disclosures.
Corporate governance is just as critical as the governance
of environmental and social factors. Investors’ expectations
with respect to Corporate Governance have already been
comprehensively documented elsewhere. In particular,
the ASX Corporate Governance Principles and ACSI’s
Governance Guidelines provide good guidance. For
completeness, this ESG Guide also refers to Corporate
Governance as per below.
3. APPLICATION OF THE GUIDE
Environment
• Environmental management
• Climate change
Social
• Human capital management (including Occupational
 Health and Safety)
• Other stakeholder management
Corporate Governance
• Corporate Governance
10.
Resources
ISO 14001 Environmental Management System Standard: www.iso.org
Process Safety Leading and Lagging Metrics published by the Centre for Chemical Process Safety provides an excellent overview of metrics related to process safety
http://www.aiche.org/uploadedFiles/CCPS/Metrics/CCPS_ProcessSafety_Metrics_2011_FINAL.pdf
The Australian Government publishes a range of reports on water use and conservation initiatives at http://www.environment.gov.au/water/ including the Oct 2006 Water
Efficiency Guide for use in building management. http://www.environment.gov.au/settlements/chemicals/hazardous-waste/index.html has more information on waste and
recycling.
Leading Reporter
Orica’s 2014 Sustainability Report provides investors with details relating to:
- Instances of non-compliance with environmental license conditions
- Containment losses experienced
- Number of process safety incidents
See: http://www.orica.com/Sustainability#.VaNdv_mqpBc
BHP Billiton 2014 Sustainability Report: see: http://www.bhpbilliton.com/home/society/reports/Pages/Roll%20up%20Pages/2014-BHP-Billiton-Sustainability-Report.aspx
provides details of waste produced, recycled or sent to land fill. They also provide information on water recycled and re-used including targets for the future.
Investors want to know:
1. Track record of environmental incidents,
 including information such as:
• Fines and non-monetary sanctions for
 non-compliance with environmental laws
 and regulations;
• Environmental provisions as reported on
 the balance sheet;
• Number and severity of breaches of
 environmental license conditions;
• Proportion of operations with ISO 14001
 certification;
• Process safety incident reporting.
2. Policies and systems related to environmental
management, commensurate with the
circumstances (materiality) specific to the
business. Considerations include:
• Biodiversity impact management;
• Water management;
• Hazardous waste management;
• Involvement in toxic materials.
3. Environmental data, if the company has a
significant environmental footprint or is exposed
to material environmental risk or externality
discussed above. For example:
• Energy consumption information including
renewables;
• Water consumption; and
• Waste production.
Commonly reported indicators
ENVIRONMENT
Context – why is it important to investors?
Operational activities which impact on the
environment within a company’s supply chain,
direct operations or products can have far
reaching implications to shareholder value
including:
• Production disruptions as the incident is
 investigated and new safeguards are put in
 place;
• Capital costs associated with remediation;
• Compensation costs to affected
 communities, business partners and
 employees;
• The impact on the company’s regulatory
 and/or social license to operate – this can
 manifest as reputational damage, operational
 delays, product boycotts, new regulation, etc.
Investors are also becoming increasingly
aware of the potential negative impacts on a
company’s social license to operate of long-term
environmental externalities that result due to
company operations, including the depletion
of scarce resources (for example fresh water,
arable land, etc.) and the disposal of future
environmental waste.
A company with significant environmental
impact that demonstrates a lack of commitment,
capacity or track record in the management of
environmental considerations presents a higher
risk for investors.
Environmental management
11.
Reporting should be tailored to each business
- pollution, water and other environmental
considerations will be more relevant and
material for certain sectors and businesses
while investors will be less concerned with
companies with a small current or anticipated
environmental footprint.
ENVIRONMENT
Context – why is it important to investors?
With many countries announcing targets to
reduce carbon emissions to address climate
change, the risk of climate change regulation
impacting companies is only likely to grow.
While the regulatory mechanisms (carbon price,
emission abatement grants, “pollution” controls,
etc.) to achieve emissions reductions may change
over time, the long-term trend is clear.
Clearly this risk (especially in the short and
medium-term) is more relevant and material
for certain sectors or companies, for example
those heavily involved in fossil fuels. Therefore
investors expect far greater disclosure from
these companies on how these risks are being
managed.
However over the long-term many other indirect
risks will impact a broader range of companies.
For example over time consumption patterns
will change in favour of low-carbon goods
and services, leading to significant changes in
industry structure. Also the physical effects of
climate change such as changes in weather
patterns, storm intensity and sea level rise may
put assets at risk. We encourage all companies
to consider these long-term trends as they apply
to their business and disclose where a material
risk exists.
A company that fails to understand its carbon
emissions, exposure to regulatory and other
indirect impacts could risk:
• Higher costs as the cost of complying with
 carbon regulation increases;
• Loss of market share as customers move to
 low-emissions suppliers;
• Damage to assets as the physical impacts of
 climate change increase.
Climate change
Investors look for:
1. Direct and indirect (for example product)
carbon emissions (e.g. via the Carbon Disclosure
Project - see resources below), other data
and information to inform investors of each
company’s risk
2. Other indirect exposure to climate change
risk – for example if major clients are involved in
fossil fuels
3. Measures to address these risks,
commensurate with the relevance and
materiality to each business; for example:
• Opportunities to reduce carbon emissions and
 energy use;
• Steps to manage the physical risks from
 climate change;
• Measures to reduce indirect exposure
 to climate change risk.
Commonly reported indicators
Resources
The Carbon Disclosure Project provides a framework for reporting carbon emissions and climate change risk: www.cdproject.org
The US Securities and Exchange Commission has published guidance on climate change disclosure: http://www.sec.gov/rules/interp/2010/33-9106.pdf
The Global Reporting Initiative is a widely-used framework for sustainability reporting: www.globalreporting.org
Leading reporter
AGL Energy 2014 Sustainability Report: see: http://agl2014.sustainability-report.com.au/ publishes extensive equity-accounted data, see: http://agl2014.sustainability-report.
com.au/data-centre/environment#tab-90 on its carbon emissions.
12.
SOCIAL
Context – why is it important to investors?
Human capital management (HCM) is central
to execution of business strategy, expansion,
innovation, and business continuity, and is
therefore a key area of investor attention. Human
capital is an intangible asset of every company
that investment markets demonstrably ascribe
a value to.
For all companies, strong HCM controls and
practices contribute to employee productivity
and loyalty. In contrast poor HCM can lead to:
• Failure to meet strategic objectives and
 project targets;
• Contribute to business disruption;
• Poor morale, engagement and
 sub-optimal productivity;
• Inability to attract skills in tight labour
 markets / loss of key talent;
• Industrial disputation and poor employee
 relations;
• Encourage increased regulation or
 regulator action; and
• Reputational damage.
Many companies face additional HCM risks that
can impact shareholders even more acutely. In
particular:
• Workplace or Occupational Health and
 Safety (OH&S) risks, both at project
 and employee level – companies
 employing workers or contractors in high-
 risk occupations often have a higher cost
 base in workers compensation premiums,
 safety equipment, and safety processes,
 and face (often severe) operational and
 reputational damage for OH&S incidents
 such as worker fatalities;
• Labour and human rights – On the surface,
 investment in companies with lower-cost
 supply lines (for example products or
 services sourced from low-income
 countries or poorly paid domestic
 workforces) represents an upside for
 investors as a function of company cost
 savings. Closer inspection reveals that
 shareholders may be exposed to increased
 risks from poor working conditions,
 unacceptable OH&S and human rights
 outcomes. These risks are principally
 legislative, operational and reputational.
 Adequate reporting of these risks is
 important for investors in undertaking
 cost-benefit assessments.
Human capital management
Investors look for evidence of the following:
Qualitative indicators:
• Board oversight of HCM;
• Integration of HCM and people risks into
 risk management processes;
• Executive remuneration linked to
 achievement of HCM objectives;
• Policies and systems to encourage
 employee satisfaction / engagement
 outcomes, and key drivers of same -
 diversity, anti-discrimination, flexible
 working, training and development, etc.;
• OH&S policies and systems (for all
 companies);
• Policies and systems to manage supply
 chain issues (including contractors and
 subcontractors).
Quantitative indicators:
• Voluntary turnover rates;
• Employee engagement / satisfaction;
• Rate of return from maternity/parental leave;
• Professional development training data;
• % women at Board and Senior
 management levels;
• Remuneration levels for male and female
 employees;
• OH&S performance indicators such as
 injury fatalities, frequency rates, near
 misses and severity indicators;
• Results of supply chain audits.
Commonly reported indicators
Resources
Global Reporting Initiative (Labour Practices and Decent Work). See: http://www.globalreporting.org
Good Health and Safety Means Good Business (WorkSafe Australia 2006). See: www.worksafe.vic.gov.au/__data/assets/pdf_file/0004/21658/ohs_public_reporting.pdf
AS/NZS 4801 is the Australian (and NZ) Standard for Occupational Health and Safety Management Systems. http://www.healthsafety.com.au/as4801/
Safe Work Australia has many free resources and tools. See: http://www.safeworkaustralia.gov.au
Australian Petroleum Production and Exploration Association Limited Safety Incident Reporting Guideline 2005 with edits in July 2013. See: http://www.appea.com.au/wpcontent/uploads/2013/04/APPEA-Safety-Incident Reporting-Guidelines-2005-with-edits-July-2013.pdf
Leading reporters
Downer EDI Ltd reports year on year indicator data on workplace health and safety, along with the absence of fines or prosecutions. Commentary provides insight into
safety governance to enhance risk management, and the responsibilities of business leaders. Performance and the area for performance improvements going forward is
discussed along with initiatives implemented which enhance business-specific risk management. See: http://www.downergroup.com/Resources/Documents/Sustainability/
Reports/2014/2014-Sustainability-Report_FINAL.pdf
National Australia Bank. Refer to NAB’s 2014 Dig Deeper Paper. See: http://cr.nab.com.au/download-centre
13.
SOCIAL
Context – why is it important to investors?
In addition to a company’s human capital, an
absence of accountability to a company’s other
key stakeholders (such as customers, suppliers,
government, and the broader community) is
being recognised by investors as a source of risk.
This is central to a company’s ‘social license
to operate’ – it is now widely established that
corporations adhering to a narrow view of
providing accountability only to shareholders
risk loss of shareholder value. This is a broader
obligation than a company and its officers simply
complying with all relevant laws. A company’s
social license is inextricably linked to its brand
and reputation – intangible assets which all
companies need to nurture and protect.
By ignoring the stakeholder interests below,
reputational and brand damage, product
boycotts, new or increased regulatory hurdles or
costs can result.
Customers
Product or service failings can inflict broader
damage to a company beyond the direct financial
impact of an initial loss of turnover. Measures
to safeguard product/service quality should be
critical to any business, however these risks can
be more acute where:
• Customers are vulnerable, disadvantaged,
 or otherwise viewed as more susceptible
 to product/service failings or poor company
 conduct; and/or
• A product or service is especially reputation-
 sensitive, e.g. food, health care, financial
 products/advice.
‘B2B’ (business-to-business) companies are
less exposed to this social license risk.
Suppliers
In seeking to maximise shareholder value,
companies that exploit dominant market
positions beyond what is legally and socially
acceptable risk reputational damage and/or
regulatory action to curb this misuse of market
power. The social license risk to shareholders
of exploiting suppliers is commensurate with
the perceived vulnerability of the supplier, for
example if smaller or otherwise disadvantaged
relative to the company.
Community stakeholders directly impacted by
company operations
Land owners/ occupiers and other community
groups can be directly impacted by company
operations. These groups have also become
increasingly empowered with the help of NGOs
and social media. Consequently it is now the
norm for many companies to closely manage
these risks.
Other stakeholder accountability
Tax
Optimisation of company tax arrangements
to maximise shareholder value may invite
controversy if it involves persistently low effective
tax rates and/or shifting earnings away from
their point of origin. These companies should
explain their approach to managing this trade-off
between shareholder value and social license
risk (which may manifest in government/
regulatory action).
Other corporate conduct issues
Poor corporate conduct (such as involvement in
bribery and corruption) is a relevant investment
risk, as it can:
• Inflate projects costs and reduce profitability;
• Increase risks and costs resulting from
 prosecution;
• Create brand damage;
• Be an indicator of poor corporate culture;
• Generate an unsustainable business
 environment by perpetuating poverty,
 entrenching corruption and having other
 adverse impacts in low-income countries.
Investors are looking for information from
companies who are, at least at face-value,
at high risk of adverse corporate conduct,
specifically, involvement in:
• Countries at high corruption risk;
Broader community and other stakeholders
14.
• Government or regulator business or
 contracts;
• High community-impact sectors such as
 resource extraction;
• Sectors vulnerable to criminal activity such
 as money laundering or concealment of
 assets, e.g. gambling, financials.
Resources
The Global Reporting Initiative is a widely-used framework for sustainability reporting: www.globalreporting.org
Group of 100, “Sustainability: a guide to triple bottom line reporting” (2008): http://group100.com.au/
BSR, Five Step Approach to Stakeholder engagement (2011)
http://www.bsr.org/en/our-insights/report-view/bsrs-five-step-approach-to-stakeholder-engagement
Leading reporters
Westpac Banking Corporation is recognized by the Group of 100 as a leading practice reporter in the Financial Services Industry sector. Westpac has reported on
stakeholder engagement in its 2014 Annual Review and Sustainability Report. See: http://www.westpac.com.au/about-westpac/sustainability-and-community/reportingour-performance/stakeholder-impact-reports/
RIO and BHP have published extensive code of conduct documents outlining their standards, who they apply to, membership of global transparency initiatives,
whistleblower policy, staff training, reporting of breaches and so on.
SOCIAL
Commonly reported indicators
Investors look for:
• Main sources of stakeholder risk as they
 apply to the business and governance
 oversight of these risks;
• Stakeholder engagement mechanisms e.g.
 meetings, surveys, briefings, use of online
 media;
• Other processes to manage stakeholder risk,
 e.g. community involvement, partnerships,
 local employment;
• Corporate codes of conduct and other
 significant policies, the extent of their
 application, associated training and
 indications of importance (for example Board
 or senior management responsibility,
 linkages with remuneration);
• Whistleblower policies and systems;
• Reporting on previous incidents and
 associated costs.
Other stakeholder accountability continued
15.
Resources
The ASX Corporate Governance Principles and Recommendations supplement black letter law in the Corporations Act in Australia: http://www.asx.com.au/documents/
asx-compliance/cgc-principles-and-recommendations-3rd-edn.pdf
The Australian Council of Superannuation Investors publish Governance guidelines for listed company boards. http://www.acsi.org.au/acsi-guidelines23/acsigovernance-guidelines.html
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Applicable law and standards (see resources
below) already extensively cover Corporate
Governance practices and disclosure, hence are
not reproduced in this Guide. Under this category
investors will seek to gain an understanding
of the company’s governance practices. These
practices provide insight into the quality of
management in the company, and the quality
of risk oversight by the board who are the
representatives of shareholders.
In particular, companies that fail to comply with
ASX standards (see resources below) under
the “If not, why not?” regime are encouraged to
provide a thorough explanation for same.
Failure of the board to address these issues has
contributed to many of the high profile corporate
collapses over the past decade. Investors
require reporting on corporate governance to
better understand the framework, policies, and
incentives in place to ensure best performance
by the company.
Best practice guidelines for corporate
governance reporting can be found below.
Context – why is it important to investors?
16.
Appropriate management of ESG issues continues to be an essential ingredient for the establishment of long term
sustainable returns. The Global Financial Crisis, along with a number of recent individual company environmental and
social events, have once again reminded investors that investment considerations cover a broad range of risks and
opportunities that affect the value of companies.
This Guide aims to assist companies with the view of investors on the information needed to assess ESG risks and
opportunities which can be factored into short, medium, and long term valuations. All companies should provide disclosure
on material ESG considerations.
Research into corporate reporting practices shows that over a third of the S&P/ASX 200 fail to provide meaningful
information on ESG considerations. One of the aims of this Guide is to assist these companies in beginning to report
meaningful ESG data.
The Financial Services Council and the Australian Council of Superannuation Investors thanks the many individual industry
associations, organisations and institutions that provided input into this guide.
4. CONCLUSION
17.
5. RESOURCES
• The International <IR> Framework, International Integrated
Reporting Council (IIRC), 2013.
• Corporate Ecoforum and World Environment Centre. (2015).
Sustainability and the CFO: Challenges, Opportunities and Next
Challenges.
• CPA Australia, GRI Focal Point Australia, KPMG Australia. (2014).
From Tactical to Strategic: How Australian Businesses create value
from sustainability.
• United Nations Principles of Responsible Investment. (2014).
Principle of Responsible Investment Fact Sheet.
• AA1000 AccountAbility Principles Standard 2008, AccountAbility,
2008.
• G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines: Reporting Principles and
Standard Disclosures, Global Reporting Initiatives, 2013.
• G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines: Implementation Manual,
Global Reporting Initiatives, 2013.
• Integrated Governance: A New Model of Governance for
Sustainability, UNEP Finance Initiative, 2014.
• Sustainability Accounting Standards Board www.sasb.org
• Carbon Disclosure Project www.cdp.net
• Sustainable Stock Exchanges Initiative www.sseinitiative.org
Performance/ Industry guidelines and standards
• Consumer Goods Forum www.theconsumergoodsforum.com
• International Petroleum Industry Environmental Conservation
Association www.ipieca.org
• International Council on Mining and Metals www.icmm.org
• Greenhouse Gas Protocol www.ghgprotocol.org
• Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil www.rspo.org
• WBCSD Cement Sustainability Initiative www.wbcsdcement.org
• Roundtable on Responsible Soy www.responsiblesoy.org/en
• The Marine Stewardship Council Certification www.msc.org
• Forestry Stewardship Council Certification https://au.fsc.org/
Stakeholder engagement
• AA1000 Stakeholder Engagement Standard (AA1000SES),
AccountAbility, 2008.
• BSR, Five Step Approach to Stakeholder engagement, BSR, 2011
Materiality
• Redefining Materiality II: Why it Matters, Who’s Involved, and What It
Means for Corporate Leader and Boards, AccountAbility, 2013.
• Sustainable Insight: The essentials of materiality assessment,
KPMG International, 2014.
• The Materiality Report: Aligning Strategy, Performance and
Reporting, AccountAbility, BT Group Plc and LRQA, 2006.
18.
Financial Services Council
Level 24, 44 Market Street
Sydney NSW 2000
Australia
www.fsc.org.au
While all due care has been taken in the preparation of this report, none of the Financial Services Council and ACSI make any
representation or warranty in relation to the accuracy or completeness of the information contained in this report. Commentary,
information or material contained in this report is of a general nature only. This report does not in any way constitute investment, legal
or taxation advice and is not a substitute for specific professional advice. No person should undertake or refrain from any action based
on the information in this report without seeking advice from an appropriately qualified professional. The Financial Services Council
and ACSI accept no responsibility for any loss or damage caused as a result of the use or reliance on this report by any person.
Australian Council of Superannuation Investors
Ground Floor, 215 Spring Street
Melbourne Victoria 3000
Australia
www.acsi.org.au