Form 51-102F1
Management’s Discussion & Analysis
Table of Contents
PART 1 GENERAL PROVISIONS
(a) What is MD&A?
(b) Date of Information
(c) Use of “Company”
(d) Explain Your Analysis
(e) Focus on Material Information
(f) What is Material?
(g) Venture Issuers Without Significant Revenue
(h) Reverse Takeover Transactions
(i) [Repealed]
(j) Resource Issuers
(k) Numbering and Headings
(l) Omitting Information
(m) Defined Terms
(n) Plain Language
(o) Available Prior Period Information
(p) Use of “Financial Condition”
PART 2 CONTENT OF MD&A
Item 1 Annual MD&A
1.1 Date
1.2 Overall Performance
1.3 Selected Annual Information
1.4 Discussion of Operations
1.5 Summary of Quarterly Results
1.6 Liquidity
1.7 Capital Resources
1.8 Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements
1.9 Transactions Between Related Parties
1.10 Fourth Quarter
1.11 Proposed Transactions
1.12 Critical Accounting Estimates
1.13 Changes in Accounting Policies including Initial Adoption
1.14 Financial Instruments and Other Instruments
1.15 Other MD&A Requirements
Item 2 Interim MD&A
2.1 Date
2.2 Interim MD&A
2.3 Other Interim MD&A Requirements
1
Form 51-102F1
Management’s Discussion & Analysis
PART 1 GENERAL PROVISIONS
(a) What is MD&A?
MD&A is a narrative explanation, through the eyes of management, of how
your company performed during the period covered by the financial
statements, and of your company’s financial condition and future prospects.
MD&A complements and supplements your financial statements, but does not
form part of your financial statements.
Your objective when preparing the MD&A should be to improve your
company’s overall financial disclosure by giving a balanced discussion of
your company’s financial performance and financial condition including,
without limitation, such considerations as liquidity and capital resources -
openly reporting bad news as well as good news. Your MD&A should
• help current and prospective investors understand what the financial
statements show and do not show;
• discuss material information that may not be fully reflected in the
financial statements, such as contingent liabilities, defaults under debt,
off-balance sheet financing arrangements, or other contractual
obligations;
• discuss important trends and risks that have affected the financial
statements, and trends and risks that are reasonably likely to affect
them in the future; and
• provide information about the quality, and potential variability, of your
company’s profit or loss and cash flow, to assist investors in
determining if past performance is indicative of future performance.
(b) Date of Information
In preparing the MD&A, you must take into account information available up
to the date of the MD&A. If the date of the MD&A is not the date it is filed,
you must ensure the disclosure in the MD&A is current so that it will not be
misleading when it is filed.
(c) Use of “Company”
Wherever this Form uses the word “company”, the term includes other types
of business organizations such as partnerships, trusts and other unincorporated
2
business entities.
(d) Explain Your Analysis
Explain the nature of, and reasons for, changes in your company’s
performance. Do not simply disclose the amount of change in a financial
statement item from period to period. Avoid using boilerplate language. Your
discussion should assist the reader to understand trends, events, transactions
and expenditures.
(e) Focus on Material Information
Focus your MD&A on material information. You do not need to disclose
information that is not material. Exercise your judgment when determining
whether information is material.
(f) What is Material?
Would a reasonable investor’s decision whether or not to buy, sell or hold
securities in your company likely be influenced or changed if the information
in question was omitted or misstated? If so, the information is likely material.
(g) Venture Issuers
If your company is a venture issuer, you have the option of meeting the
requirement to provide interim MD&A under section 2.2 by instead providing
quarterly highlights disclosure. Refer to Companion Policy 51-102CP for
guidance on quarterly highlights.
If your company is a venture issuer without significant revenue from
operations, in your MD&A including any quarterly highlights, focus your
discussion and analysis of financial performance on expenditures and progress
towards achieving your business objectives and milestones.
(h) Reverse Takeover Transactions
If an acquisition is a reverse takeover, the MD&A should be based on the
reverse takeover acquirer’s financial statements.
(i) [Repealed]
(j) Resource Issuers
If your company has mineral projects, your disclosure must comply with
National Instrument 43-101 Standards of Disclosure for Mineral Projects,
including the requirement that all scientific and technical disclosure be based
3
on a technical report or other information prepared by or under the supervision
of a qualified person.
If your company has oil and gas activities, your disclosure must comply with
National Instrument 51-101 Standards of Disclosure for Oil and Gas
Activities.
(k) Numbering and Headings
The numbering, headings and ordering of items included in this Form are
guidelines only. You do not need to include the headings or numbering or
follow the order of items in this Form. Disclosure provided in response to any
item need not be repeated elsewhere.
(l) Omitting Information
You do not need to respond to any item in this Form that is inapplicable.
(m) Defined Terms
If a term is used but not defined in this Form, refer to Part 1 of National
Instrument 51-102 and to National Instrument 14-101 Definitions. If a term is
used in this Form and is defined in both the securities statute of the local
jurisdiction and in National Instrument 51-102, refer to section 1.4 of
Companion Policy 51-102CP for further guidance.
This Form also uses accounting terms that are defined or used in Canadian
GAAP applicable to publicly accountable enterprises. For further guidance,
see subsections 1.4(7) and (8) of Companion Policy 51-102CP.
(n) Plain Language
Write the MD&A so that readers are able to understand it. Refer to the plain
language principles listed in section 1.5 of Companion Policy 51-102CP for
further guidance. If you use technical terms, explain them in a clear and
concise manner.
(o) Available Prior Period Information
If you have not presented comparative financial information in your financial
statements, in your MD&A you must provide prior period information relating
to financial performance that is available.
(p) Use of “Financial Condition”
This Form uses the term “financial condition”. Financial condition reflects the
4
overall health of the company and includes your company’s financial position
(as shown on the statement of financial position) and other factors that may
affect your company’s liquidity, capital resources and solvency.
PART 2 CONTENT OF MD&A
Item 1 Annual MD&A
1.1 Date
Specify the date of your MD&A. The date of the MD&A must be no earlier
than the date of the auditor’s report on the annual financial statements for your
company’s most recently completed financial year.
1.2 Overall Performance
Provide an analysis of your company’s financial condition, financial
performance and cash flows. Discuss known trends, demands, commitments,
events or uncertainties that are reasonably likely to have an effect on your
company’s business. Compare your company’s performance in the most
recently completed financial year to the prior year’s performance. Your
analysis should address at least the following:
(a) operating segments that are reportable segments as those terms are
described in the issuer’s GAAP;
(b) other parts of your business if
(i) they have a disproportionate effect on revenue, profit or loss or
cash needs; or
(ii) there are any legal or other restrictions on the flow of funds
from one part of your company’s business to another;
(c) industry and economic factors affecting your company’s performance;
(d) why changes have occurred or expected changes have not occurred in
your company’s financial condition and financial performance; and
(e) the effect of discontinued operations on current operations.
INSTRUCTIONS
(i) When explaining changes in your company’s financial condition and results,
include an analysis of the effect on your continuing operations of any acquisition,
disposition, write-off, abandonment or other similar transaction.
5
(ii) A discussion of financial condition should include important trends and risks that
have affected the financial statements, and trends and risks that are reasonably
likely to affect them in the future.
(iii) Include information for a period longer than two financial years if it will help the
reader to better understand a trend.
1.3 Selected Annual Information
(1) Provide the following financial data derived from your company’s annual
financial statements for each of the three most recently completed financial
years:
(a) total revenue;
(b) profit or loss from continuing operations attributable to owners of the
parent, in total and on a per-share and diluted per-share basis;
(c) profit or loss attributable to owners of the parent, in total and on a pershare and diluted per-share basis;
(d) total assets;
(e) total non-current financial liabilities; and
(f) distributions or cash dividends declared per-share for each class of
share.
(2) Discuss the factors that have caused period to period variations including
discontinued operations, changes in accounting policies, significant
acquisitions or dispositions and changes in the direction of your business, and
any other information your company believes would enhance an
understanding of, and would highlight trends in, financial position and
financial performance.
INSTRUCTIONS
(i) For each of the three most recently completed financial years, indicate the
accounting principles that the financial data has been prepared in accordance
with, the presentation currency and the functional currency if different from the
presentation currency.
(ii) If the financial data provided was not prepared in accordance with the same
accounting principles for all three years, focus the discussion on the important
trends and risks that have affected the business.
6
1.4 Discussion of Operations
Discuss your analysis of your company’s operations for the most recently
completed financial year, including
(a) total revenue by reportable segment, including any changes in such
amounts caused by selling prices, volume or quantity of goods or
services being sold, or the introduction of new products or services;
(b) any other significant factors that caused changes in total revenue;
(c) cost of sales or gross profit;
(d) for issuers that have significant projects that have not yet generated
revenue, describe each project, including your company’s plan for the
project and the status of the project relative to that plan, and
expenditures made and how these relate to anticipated timing and costs
to take the project to the next stage of the project plan;
(e) for resource issuers with producing mines or mines under
development, identify any milestone, including, without limitation,
mine expansion plans, productivity improvements, plans to develop a
new deposit, or production decisions, and whether the milestone is
based on a technical report filed under National Instrument 43-101
Standards of Disclosure for Mineral Projects;
(f) factors that caused a change in the relationship between costs and
revenue, including changes in costs of labour or materials, price
changes or inventory adjustments;
(g) commitments, events, risks or uncertainties that you reasonably
believe will materially affect your company’s future performance
including total revenue and profit or loss from continuing operations
attributable to owners of the parent;
(h) effect of inflation and specific price changes on your company’s total
revenue and on profit or loss from continuing operations attributable to
owners of the parent;
(i) a comparison in tabular form of disclosure you previously made about
how your company was going to use proceeds (other than working
capital) from any financing, an explanation of variances and the
impact of the variances, if any, on your company’s ability to achieve
its business objectives and milestones; and
7
(j) unusual or infrequent events or transactions.
INSTRUCTION
Your discussion under paragraph 1.4(d) should include
(i) whether or not you plan to expend additional funds on the project; and
(ii) any factors that have affected the value of the project(s) such as change in
commodity prices, land use or political or environmental issues.
1.5 Summary of Quarterly Results
Provide the following information in summary form, derived from your
company’s financial statements, for each of the eight most recently completed
quarters:
(a) total revenue;
(b) profit or loss from continuing operations attributable to owners of the
parent, in total and on a per-share and diluted per-share basis; and
(c) profit or loss attributable to owners of the parent, in total and on a pershare and diluted per-share basis.
Discuss the factors that have caused variations over the quarters necessary to
understand general trends that have developed and the seasonality of the
business.
INSTRUCTIONS
(i) In the case of the annual MD&A, your most recently completed quarter is the
quarter that ended on the last day of your most recently completed financial year.
(ii) You do not have to provide information for a quarter prior to your company
becoming a reporting issuer if your company has not prepared financial
statements for those quarters.
(iii) For sections 1.2, 1.3, 1.4 and 1.5 consider identifying, discussing and analyzing
the following factors:
(A) changes in customer buying patterns, including changes due to new
technologies and changes in demographics;
(B) changes in selling practices, including changes due to new distribution
arrangements or a reorganization of a direct sales force;
8
(C) changes in competition, including an assessment of the issuer’s resources,
strengths and weaknesses relative to those of its competitors;
(D) the effect of exchange rates;
(E) changes in pricing of inputs, constraints on supply, order backlog, or
other input-related matters;
(F) changes in production capacity, including changes due to plant closures
and work stoppages;
(G) changes in volume of discounts granted to customers, volumes of returns
and allowances, excise and other taxes or other amounts reflected on a net
basis against revenue;
(H) changes in the terms and conditions of service contracts;
(I) the progress in achieving previously announced milestones;
(J) for resource issuers with producing mines, identify changes to cash flows
caused by changes in production throughput, head-grade, cut-off grade,
metallurgical recovery and any expectation of future changes; and
(K) if you have an equity investee that is significant to your company, the
nature of the investment and significance to your company.
(iv) For each of the eight most recently completed quarters, indicate the accounting
principles that the financial data has been prepared in accordance with, the
presentation currency and the functional currency if different from the
presentation currency.
(v) If the financial data provided was not prepared in accordance with the same
accounting principles for all eight quarters, focus the discussion on the important
trends and risks that have affected the business.
1.6 Liquidity
Provide an analysis of your company’s liquidity, including
(a) its ability to generate sufficient amounts of cash and cash equivalents,
in the short term and the long term, to maintain your company’s
capacity, to meet your company’s planned growth or to fund
development activities;
(b) trends or expected fluctuations in your company’s liquidity, taking into
9
account demands, commitments, events or uncertainties;
(c) its working capital requirements;
(d) liquidity risks associated with financial instruments;
(e) if your company has or expects to have a working capital deficiency,
discuss its ability to meet obligations as they become due and how you
expect it to remedy the deficiency;
(f) statement of financial position conditions or profit or loss attributable
to owners of the parent or cash flow items that may affect your
company’s liquidity;
(g) legal or practical restrictions on the ability of subsidiaries to transfer
funds to your company and the effect these restrictions have had or
may have on the ability of your company to meet its obligations; and
(h) defaults or arrears or significant risk of defaults or arrears on
(i) distributions or dividend payments, lease payments, interest or
principal payment on debt;
(ii) debt covenants; and
(iii) redemption or retraction or sinking fund payments,
and how your company intends to cure the default or arrears or address the
risk.
INSTRUCTIONS
(i) In discussing your company’s ability to generate sufficient amounts of cash and
cash equivalents you should describe sources of funding and the circumstances
that could affect those sources that are reasonably likely to occur. Examples of
circumstances that could affect liquidity are market or commodity price changes,
economic downturns, defaults on guarantees and contractions of operations.
(ii) In discussing trends or expected fluctuations in your company’s liquidity and
liquidity risks associated with financial instruments you should discuss
(A) provisions in debt, lease or other arrangements that could trigger an
additional funding requirement or early payment. Examples of such
situations are provisions linked to credit rating, profit or loss, cash flows
or share price; and
10
(B) circumstances that could impair your company’s ability to undertake
transaction considered essential to operations. Examples of such
circumstances are the inability to maintain investment grade credit rating,
earnings per-share, cash flow or share price.
(iii) In discussing your company’s working capital requirements you should discuss
situations where your company must maintain significant inventory to meet
customers’ delivery requirements or any situations involving extended payment
terms.
(iv) In discussing your company’s statement of financial position conditions or profit
or loss or cash flow items you should present a summary, in tabular form, of
contractual obligations including payments due for each of the next five years and
thereafter. The summary and table do not have to be provided if your company is
a venture issuer. An example of a table that can be adapted to your company’s
particular circumstances follows:
Payments Due by Period
Contractual
Obligations Total
Less than
1 year
1 - 3
years
4 - 5
years
After
5 years
Debt
Finance Lease
Obligations
Operating Leases
Purchase Obligations1
Other Obligations2
Total Contractual
Obligations
_____________
1 “Purchase Obligation” means an agreement to purchase goods or services that is
enforceable and legally binding on your company that specifies all significant
terms, including: fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased; fixed, minimum
or variable price provisions; and the approximate timing of the transaction.
2 “Other Obligations” means other financial liabilities reflected on your company’s
statement of financial position.
The tabular presentation may be accompanied by footnotes to describe provisions that
create, increase or accelerate obligations, or other details to the extent necessary for an
understanding of the timing and amount of your company’s specified contractual
obligations.
1.7 Capital Resources
Provide an analysis of your company’s capital resources, including
11
(a) commitments for capital expenditures as of the date of your company’s
financial statements including
(i) the amount, nature and purpose of these commitments;
(ii) the expected source of funds to meet these commitments; and
(iii) expenditures not yet committed but required to maintain your
company’s capacity, to meet your company’s planned growth
or to fund development activities;
(b) known trends or expected fluctuations in your company’s capital
resources, including expected changes in the mix and relative cost of
these resources; and
(c) sources of financing that your company has arranged but not yet used.
INSTRUCTIONS
(i) Capital resources are financing resources available to your company and include
debt, equity and any other financing arrangements that you reasonably consider
will provide financial resources to your company.
(ii) In discussing your company’s commitments you should discuss any exploration
and development, or research and development expenditures required to maintain
properties or agreements in good standing.
1.8 Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements
Discuss any off-balance sheet arrangements that have, or are reasonably likely
to have, a current or future effect on the financial performance or financial
condition of your company including, without limitation, such considerations
as liquidity and capital resources.
In your discussion of off-balance sheet arrangements you should discuss their
business purpose and activities, their economic substance, risks associated
with the arrangements, and the key terms and conditions associated with any
commitments. Your discussion should include
(a) a description of the other contracting party(ies);
(b) the effects of terminating the arrangement;
(c) the amounts receivable or payable, revenue, expenses and cash flows
resulting from the arrangement;
12
(d) the nature and amounts of any other obligations or liabilities arising
from the arrangement that could require your company to provide
funding under the arrangement and the triggering events or
circumstances that could cause them to arise; and
(e) any known event, commitment, trend or uncertainty that may affect the
availability or benefits of the arrangement (including any termination)
and the course of action that management has taken, or proposes to
take, in response to any such circumstances.
INSTRUCTIONS
(i) Off-balance sheet arrangements include any contractual arrangement with an
entity not reported on a consolidated basis with your company, under which your
company has
(A) any obligation under certain guarantee contracts;
(B) a retained or contingent interest in assets transferred to an unconsolidated
entity or similar arrangement that serves as credit, liquidity or market risk
support to that entity for the assets;
(C) any obligation under certain derivative instruments; or
(D) any obligation held by your company in an unconsolidated entity that
provides financing, liquidity, market risk or credit risk support to your
company, or engages in leasing, hedging activities or, research and
development services with your company.
(ii) Contingent liabilities arising out of litigation, arbitration or regulatory actions
are not considered to be off-balance sheet arrangements.
(iii) Disclosure of off-balance sheet arrangements should cover the most recently
completed financial year. However, the discussion should address changes from
the previous year where such discussion is necessary to understand the
disclosure.
(iv) The discussion need not repeat information provided in the notes to the financial
statements if the discussion clearly cross-references to specific information in the
relevant notes and integrates the substance of the notes into the discussion in a
manner that explains the significance of the information not included in the
MD&A.
13
1.9 Transactions Between Related Parties
Discuss all transactions between related parties as defined by the issuer’s
GAAP.
INSTRUCTION
In discussing your company’s transactions between related parties, your discussion
should include both qualitative and quantitative characteristics that are necessary for an
understanding of the transactions’ business purpose and economic substance. You should
discuss
(A) the relationship and identify the related person or entities;
(B) the business purpose of the transaction;
(C) the recorded amount of the transaction and describe the measurement basis used;
and
(D) any ongoing contractual or other commitments resulting from the transaction.
1.10 Fourth Quarter
Discuss and analyze fourth quarter events or items that affected your
company’s financial condition, financial performance or cash flows, year-end
and other adjustments, seasonal aspects of your company’s business and
dispositions of business segments. If your company has filed separate MD&A
for its fourth quarter, you may satisfy this requirement by incorporating that
MD&A by reference.
1.11 Proposed Transactions
Discuss the expected effect on financial condition, financial performance and
cash flows of any proposed asset or business acquisition or disposition if your
company’s board of directors, or senior management who believe that
confirmation of the decision by the board is probable, have decided to proceed
with the transaction. Include the status of any required shareholder or
regulatory approvals.
INSTRUCTION
You do not have to disclose this information if, under section 7.1 of National Instrument
51-102, your company has filed a Form 51-102F3 Material Change Report regarding the
transaction on a confidential basis and the report remains confidential.
14
1.12 Critical Accounting Estimates
If your company is not a venture issuer, provide an analysis of your
company’s critical accounting estimates. Your analysis should
(a) identify and describe each critical accounting estimate used by your
company including
(i) a description of the accounting estimate;
(ii) the methodology used in determining the critical accounting
estimate;
(iii) the assumptions underlying the accounting estimate that relate
to matters highly uncertain at the time the estimate was made;
(iv) any known trends, commitments, events or uncertainties that
you reasonably believe will materially affect the methodology
or the assumptions described; and
(v) if applicable, why the accounting estimate is reasonably likely
to change from period to period and have a material impact on
the financial presentation;
(b) explain the significance of the accounting estimate to your company’s
financial position, changes in financial position and financial
performance and identify the financial statement line items affected by
the accounting estimate;
(c) [Repealed]
(d) discuss changes made to critical accounting estimates during the past
two financial years including the reasons for the change and the
quantitative effect on your company’s overall financial performance
and financial statement line items; and
(e) identify the reportable segments of your company’s business that the
accounting estimate affects and discuss the accounting estimate on a
reportable segment basis, if your company operates in more than one
reportable segment.
INSTRUCTIONS
(i) An accounting estimate is a critical accounting estimate only if
(A) it requires your company to make assumptions about matters that are
15
highly uncertain at the time the accounting estimate is made; and
(B) different estimates that your company could have used in the current
period, or changes in the accounting estimate that are reasonably likely to
occur from period to period, would have a material impact on your
company’s financial condition, changes in financial condition or financial
performance.
(ii) As part of your description of each critical accounting estimate, in addition to
qualitative disclosure, you should provide quantitative disclosure when
quantitative information is reasonably available and would provide material
information for investors. Similarly, in your discussion of assumptions underlying
an accounting estimate that relates to matters highly uncertain at the time the
estimate was made, you should provide quantitative disclosure when it is
reasonably available and it would provide material information for investors. For
example, quantitative information may include a sensitivity analysis or disclosure
of the upper and lower ends of the range of estimates from which the recorded
estimate was selected.
1.13 Changes in Accounting Policies including Initial Adoption
Discuss and analyze any changes in your company’s accounting policies,
including
(a) for any accounting policies that you have adopted or expect to adopt
subsequent to the end of your most recently completed financial year,
including changes you have made or expect to make voluntarily and
those due to a change in an accounting standard or a new accounting
standard that you do not have to adopt until a future date, you should
(i) describe the new standard, the date you are required to adopt it
and, if determined, the date you plan to adopt it;
(ii) disclose the methods of adoption permitted by the accounting
standard and the method you expect to use;
(iii) discuss the expected effect on your company’s financial
statements, or if applicable, state that you cannot reasonably
estimate the effect; and
(iv) discuss the potential effect on your business, for example
technical violations or default of debt covenants or changes in
business practices; and
(b) for any accounting policies that you have initially adopted during the
most recently completed financial year, you should
16
(i) describe the events or transactions that gave rise to the initial
adoption of an accounting policy;
(ii) describe the accounting policy that has been adopted and the
method of applying that policy;
(iii) discuss the effect resulting from the initial adoption of the
accounting policy on your company’s financial position,
changes in financial position and financial performance;
(iv) if your company is permitted a choice among acceptable
accounting policies,
(A) state that you made a choice among acceptable
alternatives;
(B) identify the alternatives;
(C) describe why you made the choice that you did; and
(D) discuss the effect, where material, on your company’s
financial position, changes in financial position and
financial performance under the alternatives not chosen;
and
(v) if no accounting literature exists that covers the accounting for
the events or transactions giving rise to your initial adoption of
the accounting policy, explain your decision regarding which
accounting policy to use and the method of applying that
policy.
INSTRUCTION
You do not have to present the discussion under paragraph 1.13(b) for the initial
adoption of accounting policies resulting from the adoption of new accounting standards.
1.14 Financial Instruments and Other Instruments
For financial instruments and other instruments,
(a) discuss the nature and extent of your company’s use of, including
relationships among, the instruments and the business purposes that
they serve;
(b) describe and analyze the risks associated with the instruments;
17
(c) describe how you manage the risks in paragraph (b), including a
discussion of the objectives, general strategies and instruments used to
manage the risks, including any hedging activities;
(d) disclose the financial statement classification and amounts of income,
expenses, gains and losses associated with the instrument; and
(e) discuss the significant assumptions made in determining the fair value
of financial instruments, the total amount and financial statement
classification of the change in fair value of financial instruments
recognized in profit or loss for the period, and the total amount and
financial statement classification of deferred or unrecognized gains
and losses on financial instruments.
INSTRUCTIONS
(i) “Other instruments” are instruments that may be settled by the delivery of nonfinancial assets. A commodity futures contract is an example of an instrument that
may be settled by delivery of non-financial assets.
(ii) Your discussion under paragraph 1.14(a) should enhance a reader’s
understanding of the significance of recognized and unrecognized instruments on
your company’s financial position, financial performance and cash flows. The
information should also assist a reader in assessing the amounts, timing, and
certainty of future cash flows associated with those instruments. Also discuss the
relationship between liability and equity components of convertible debt
instruments.
(iii) For purposes of paragraph 1.14(c), if your company is exposed to significant
price, credit or liquidity risks, consider providing a sensitivity analysis or tabular
information to help readers assess the degree of exposure. For example, an
analysis of the effect of a hypothetical change in the prevailing level of interest or
currency rates on the fair value of financial instruments and future profit or loss
and cash flows may be useful in describing your company’s exposure to price
risk.
(iv) For purposes of paragraph 1.14(d), disclose and explain the revenue, expenses,
gains and losses from hedging activities separately from other activities.
1.15 Other MD&A Requirements
(a) Your MD&A must disclose that additional information relating to your
company, including your company’s AIF if your company files an
AIF, is on SEDAR at www.sedar.com.
18
(b) Your MD&A must also provide the information required in the
following sections of National Instrument 51-102, if applicable:
(i) Section 5.3 – Additional Disclosure for Venture Issuers
without Significant Revenue;
(ii) Section 5.4 – Disclosure of Outstanding Share Data; and
(iii) Section 5.7 – Additional Disclosure for Reporting Issuers with
Significant Equity Investees.
(c) Your MD&A must include the MD&A disclosure required by National
Instrument 52-109 Certification of Disclosure in Issuers’ Annual and
Interim Filings and, as applicable, Form 52-109F1 Certification of
Annual Filings – Full Certificate, Form 52-109F1R Certification of
Refiled Annual Filings, or Form 52-109F1 AIF Certification of Annual
Filings in Connection with Voluntarily Filed AIF.
Item 2 Interim MD&A
2.1 Date
Specify the date of your interim MD&A.
2.2 Interim MD&A
Interim MD&A must update your company’s annual MD&A for all disclosure
required by Item 1 except section 1.3. This disclosure must include
(a) a discussion of your analysis of
(i) current quarter and year-to-date results including a comparison
of financial performance to the corresponding periods in the
previous year;
(i.i) a comparison of cash flows to the corresponding period in the
previous year;
(ii) changes in financial performance and elements of profit or loss
attributable to owners of the parent that are not related to
ongoing business operations;
(iii) any seasonal aspects of your company’s business that affect its
financial position, financial performance or cash flows; and
(b) a comparison of your company’s interim financial condition to your
19
company’s financial condition as at the most recently completed
financial year-end.
INSTRUCTION
(i) If the first MD&A you file in this Form (your first MD&A) is an interim MD&A,
you must provide all the disclosure called for in Item 1 in your first MD&A. Base
the disclosure, except the disclosure for section 1.3, on your interim financial
report. Since you do not have to update the disclosure required in section 1.3 in
your interim MD&A, your first MD&A will provide disclosure under section 1.3
based on your annual financial statements. Your subsequent interim MD&A for
that year will update your first interim MD&A.
(ii) For the purposes of paragraph 2.2(b), you may assume the reader has access to
your annual MD&A or your first MD&A. You do not have to duplicate the
discussion and analysis of financial condition in your annual MD&A or your first
MD&A. For example, if economic and industry factors are substantially
unchanged you may make a statement to this effect.
(iii) For the purposes of subparagraph 2.2(a)(i), you should generally give
prominence to the current quarter.
(iv) In discussing your company’s statement of financial position conditions or profit
or loss or cash flow items for an interim period, you do not have to present a
summary, in tabular form, of all known contractual obligations contemplated
under section 1.6. Instead, you should disclose material changes in the specified
contractual obligations during the interim period.
(v) Interim MD&A prepared in accordance with Item 2 is not required for your
company’s fourth quarter as relevant fourth quarter content will be contained in
your company’s annual MD&A prepared in accordance with Item 1 (see section
1.10).
(vi) In your interim MD&A, update the summary of quarterly results in section 1.5 by
providing summary information for the eight most recently completed quarters.
(vii) Your annual MD&A may not include all the information in Item 1 if you were a
venture issuer as at the end of your last financial year. If you ceased to be a
venture issuer during your interim period, you do not have to restate the MD&A
you previously filed. Instead, provide the disclosure for the additional sections in
Item 1 that you were exempt from as a venture issuer in the next interim MD&A
you file. Base your disclosure for those sections on your interim financial report.
2.2.1 Quarterly Highlights
If your company is a venture issuer, you have the option of meeting the
20
requirement to provide interim MD&A under section 2.2 by instead providing
a short discussion of all material information about your company’s
operations, liquidity and capital resources. Include in your discussion:
• an analysis of your company’s financial condition, financial
performance and cash flows and any significant factors that have
caused period to period variations in those measures;
• known trends, risks or demands;
• major operating milestones;
• commitments, expected or unexpected events, or uncertainties that
have materially affected your company’s operations, liquidity and
capital resources in the interim period or are reasonably likely to have
a material effect going forward;
• any significant changes from disclosure previously made about how
the company was going to use proceeds from any financing and an
explanation of variances;
• any significant transactions between related parties that occurred in the
interim period.
INSTRUCTIONS
(i) If the first MD&A you file in this Form (your first MD&A) is an interim MD&A,
you cannot use quarterly highlights. Rather, you must provide all the disclosure
called for in Item 1 in your first MD&A. Base the disclosure, except the disclosure
for section 1.3, on your interim financial report. Since you do not have to update
the disclosure required in section 1.3 in your interim MD&A, your first MD&A
will provide disclosure under section 1.3 based on your annual financial
statements.
(ii) Provide a short, focused discussion that gives a balanced and accurate picture of
the company’s business activities during the interim period. The purpose of the
quarterly highlights reporting is to provide a brief narrative update about the
business activities, financial condition, financial performance and cash flow of
the company. While summaries are to be clear and concise, they are subject to the
normal prohibitions against false and misleading statements.
(iii) Quarterly highlights prepared in accordance with section 2.2.1 are not required
for your company’s fourth quarter as relevant fourth quarter content will be
contained in your company’s annual MD&A prepared in accordance with Item 1
(see section 1.10).
21
(iv) You must title your quarterly highlights “Interim MD&A – Quarterly Highlights”.
(v) If there was a change to the company’s accounting policies during the interim
period, include a description of the material effects resulting from the change.
2.2.2 Quarterly Highlights - Transition
Section 2.2.1 applies to an issuer in respect of a financial year beginning on or
after July 1, 2015.
2.3 Other Interim MD&A Requirements
Your interim MD&A must include the interim MD&A disclosure required by
National Instrument 52-109 Certification of Disclosure in Issuers’ Annual and
Interim Filings and, as applicable, Form 52-109F2 Certification of Interim
Filings – Full Certificate or Form 52-109F2R Certification of Refiled Interim
Filings.