Form 58-101F1
Corporate Governance Disclosure
1. Board of Directors ―
(a) Disclose the identity of directors who are independent.
(b) Disclose the identity of directors who are not independent, and describe the basis
for that determination.
(c) Disclose whether or not a majority of directors are independent. If a majority of
directors are not independent, describe what the board of directors (the board)
does to facilitate its exercise of independent judgement in carrying out its
responsibilities.
(d) If a director is presently a director of any other issuer that is a reporting issuer (or
the equivalent) in a jurisdiction or a foreign jurisdiction, identify both the director
and the other issuer.
(e) Disclose whether or not the independent directors hold regularly scheduled
meetings at which non-independent directors and members of management are
not in attendance. If the independent directors hold such meetings, disclose the
number of meetings held since the beginning of the issuer’s most recently
completed financial year. If the independent directors do not hold such meetings,
describe what the board does to facilitate open and candid discussion among its
independent directors.
(f) Disclose whether or not the chair of the board is an independent director. If the
board has a chair or lead director who is an independent director, disclose the
identity of the independent chair or lead director, and describe his or her role and
responsibilities. If the board has neither a chair that is independent nor a lead
director that is independent, describe what the board does to provide leadership
for its independent directors.
(g) Disclose the attendance record of each director for all board meetings held since
the beginning of the issuer’s most recently completed financial year.
2. Board Mandate ―
Disclose the text of the board’s written mandate. If the board does not have a written
mandate, describe how the board delineates its role and responsibilities.
-2-
3. Position Descriptions ―
(a) Disclose whether or not the board has developed written position descriptions for
the chair and the chair of each board committee. If the board has not developed
written position descriptions for the chair and/or the chair of each board
committee, briefly describe how the board delineates the role and responsibilities
of each such position.
(b) Disclose whether or not the board and CEO have developed a written position
description for the CEO. If the board and CEO have not developed such a position
description, briefly describe how the board delineates the role and responsibilities
of the CEO.
4. Orientation and Continuing Education ―
(a) Briefly describe what measures the board takes to orient new directors regarding
(i) the role of the board, its committees and its directors, and
(ii) the nature and operation of the issuer’s business.
(b) Briefly describe what measures, if any, the board takes to provide continuing
education for its directors. If the board does not provide continuing education,
describe how the board ensures that its directors maintain the skill and knowledge
necessary to meet their obligations as directors.
5. Ethical Business Conduct ―
(a) Disclose whether or not the board has adopted a written code for the directors,
officers and employees. If the board has adopted a written code:
(i) disclose how a person or company may obtain a copy of the code;
(ii) describe how the board monitors compliance with its code, or if the board
does not monitor compliance, explain whether and how the board satisfies
itself regarding compliance with its code; and
(iii) provide a cross-reference to any material change report filed since the
beginning of the issuer’s most recently completed financial year that
pertains to any conduct of a director or executive officer that constitutes a
departure from the code.
(b) Describe any steps the board takes to ensure directors exercise independent
judgement in considering transactions and agreements in respect of which a
director or executive officer has a material interest.
(c) Describe any other steps the board takes to encourage and promote a culture of
ethical business conduct.
-3-
6. Nomination of Directors ―
(a) Describe the process by which the board identifies new candidates for board
nomination.
(b) Disclose whether or not the board has a nominating committee composed entirely
of independent directors. If the board does not have a nominating committee
composed entirely of independent directors, describe what steps the board takes to
encourage an objective nomination process.
(c) If the board has a nominating committee, describe the responsibilities, powers and
operation of the nominating committee.
7. Compensation ―
(a) Describe the process by which the board determines the compensation for the
issuer’s directors and officers.
(b) Disclose whether or not the board has a compensation committee composed
entirely of independent directors. If the board does not have a compensation
committee composed entirely of independent directors, describe what steps the
board takes to ensure an objective process for determining such compensation.
(c) If the board has a compensation committee, describe the responsibilities, powers
and operation of the compensation committee.
(d) [Repealed]
8. Other Board Committees ―
If the board has standing committees other than the audit, compensation and nominating
committees, identify the committees and describe their function.
9. Assessments ―
Disclose whether or not the board, its committees and individual directors are regularly
assessed with respect to their effectiveness and contribution. If assessments are regularly
conducted, describe the process used for the assessments. If assessments are not regularly
conducted, describe how the board satisfies itself that the board, its committees, and its
individual directors are performing effectively.
10. Director Term Limits and Other Mechanisms of Board Renewal (Alberta, Manitoba,
New Brunswick, Newfoundland and Labrador, Northwest Territories, Nova Scotia,
Nunavut, Ontario, Québec, Saskatchewan and Yukon only) ―
Disclose whether or not the issuer has adopted term limits for the directors on its board or
other mechanisms of board renewal and, if so, include a description of those director term
-4-
limits or other mechanisms of board renewal. If the issuer has not adopted director term
limits or other mechanisms of board renewal, disclose why it has not done so.
11. Policies Regarding the Representation of Women on the Board (Alberta, Manitoba,
New Brunswick, Newfoundland and Labrador, Northwest Territories, Nova Scotia,
Nunavut, Ontario, Québec, Saskatchewan and Yukon only) ―
(a) Disclosure whether the issuer has adopted a written policy relating to the
identification and nomination of women directors. If the issuer has not adopted
such a policy, disclose why it has not done so.
(b) If an issuer has adopted a policy referred to in (a), disclose the following in
respect of the policy:
(i) a short summary of its objectives and key provisions,
(ii) the measures taken to ensure that the policy has been effectively
implemented,
(iii) annual and cumulative progress by the issuer in achieving the objectives
of the policy, and
(iv) whether and, if so, how the board or its nominating committee measures
the effectiveness of the policy.
12. Consideration of the Representation of Women in the Director Identification and
Selection Process (Alberta, Manitoba, New Brunswick, Newfoundland and Labrador,
Northwest Territories, Nova Scotia, Nunavut, Ontario, Québec, Saskatchewan and Yukon
only) ―
Disclose whether and, if so, how the board or nominating committee considers the level
of representation of women on the board in identifying and nominating candidates for
election or re-election to the board. If the issuer does not consider the level of
representation of women on the board in identifying and nominating candidates for
election or re-election to the board, disclose the issuer's reasons for not doing so.
13. Consideration Given to the Representation of Women in Executive Officer
Appointments (Alberta, Manitoba, New Brunswick, Newfoundland and Labrador,
Northwest Territories, Nova Scotia, Nunavut, Ontario, Québec, Saskatchewan and Yukon
only) ―
Disclose whether and, if so, how the issuer considers the level of representation of
women in executive officer positions when making executive officer appointments. If the
issuer does not consider the level of representation of women in executive officer
positions when making executive officer appointments, disclose the issuer's reasons for
not doing so.
-5-
14. Issuer’s Targets Regarding the Representation of Women on the Board and in
Executive Officer Positions (Alberta, Manitoba, New Brunswick, Newfoundland and
Labrador, Northwest Territories, Nova Scotia, Nunavut, Ontario, Québec, Saskatchewan
and Yukon only) ―
(a) For purposes of this Item, a "target" means a number or percentage, or a range of
numbers or percentages, adopted by the issuer of women on the issuer's board or
in executive officer positions of the issuer by a specific date.
(b) Disclose whether the issuer has adopted a target regarding women on the issuer's
board. If the issuer has not adopted a target, disclose why it has not done so.
(c) Disclose whether the issuer has adopted a target regarding women in executive
officer positions of the issuer. If the issuer has not adopted a target, disclose why
it has not done so.
(d) If the issuer has adopted a target referred to in either (b) or (c), disclose:
(i) the target, and
(ii) the annual and cumulative progress of the issuer in achieving the target.
15. Number of Women on the Board and in Executive Officer Positions (Alberta,
Manitoba, New Brunswick, Newfoundland and Labrador, Northwest Territories, Nova
Scotia, Nunavut, Ontario, Québec, Saskatchewan and Yukon only) ―
(a) Disclose the number and proportion (in percentage terms) of directors on the
issuer's board who are women.
(b) Disclose the number and proportion (in percentage terms) of executive officers of
the issuer, including all major subsidiaries of the issuer, who are women.
INSTRUCTION:
(1) This Form applies to both corporate and non-corporate entities. Reference to a
particular corporate characteristic, such as a board, includes any equivalent
characteristic of a non-corporate entity.
Income trust issuers must provide disclosure in a manner which recognizes that certain
functions of a corporate issuer, its board and its management may be performed by any
or all of the trustees, the board or management of a subsidiary of the trust, or the board,
management or employees of a management company. In the case of an income trust,
references to “the issuer” refer to both the trust and any underlying entities, including
the operating entity.
(2) If the disclosure required by Item 1 is included in a management information circular
distributed to security holders of the issuer for the purpose of electing directors to the
-6-
issuer’s board of directors, provide disclosure regarding the existing directors and any
proposed directors.
(3) Disclosure regarding board committees made under Item 8 of this Form may include the
existence and summary content of any committee charter.
(3.1) Issuers may incorporate disclosure regarding compensation made under Item 7 of this
Form by reference to the information required to be included in Form 51-102F6
Statement of Executive Compensation. Clearly identify the information that is
incorporated by reference into this Form.
(4) An issuer may disclose any additional information that is relevant in order to understand
the context of the information disclosed by the issuer under Item 15(a) or (b) of this
Form.
(5) An issuer may incorporate information required to be disclosed under Items 10 to 15 by
reference to another document. The issuer must clearly identify the reference document
or any excerpt of it that the issuer incorporates into the disclosure provided under Items
10 to 15. Unless the issuer has already filed the reference document or excerpt under its
SEDAR profile, the issuer must file it at the same time as it files the document containing
the disclosure required under this Form.