GUIDANCE FOR ISSUERS
DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION
OF SUSTAINABILITY REPORTS
HOW TO INCLUDE ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FACTORS:
1 DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION OF SUSTAINABILTY REPORTS
Prologue of Santiago Exchange
Prologue of sustainable stock exchanges
Introduction
What is sustainability or ESG?
Environmental Aspects
Social Aspects
Governance Aspects
Sustainability in capital markets
The role of issuers
The role of investors
The role of exchanges
Why report on sustainability considerations?
Investor Interest in ESG factors
Regulatory developments
Strengthening financial performance
Customers and consumers with interest in ESG factors
Primary benefits of reporting on sustainability
Recommendations for preparing a sustainability report
Responsibility and oversight
Clarity of purpose
Supporting corporate strategy
Identifying and understanding the audience
Relevance and materiality
Identifying themes
Adopting relevant performance indicators
Accessibility
Credibility and responsiveness
Robust internal ESG data collection and
management processes
Engaging for continuous improvement
Assessment and control
 Considerations in preparing a sustainability report
Sustainability reporting initiatives
Performance measurement metrics
 Appendices
Questions to guide report preparers
Communicating the value of sustainability
 Global sustainability standards and principles
 References
 Acknowledgemnts and contact
3
5
7
9
10
10
11
12
12
12
13
14
14
16
19
22
1.
2.
2.1.
2.2.
2.3.
3.
3.1.
3.2.
3.3.
4.
4.1.
4.2.
4.3.
4.4.
23
29
29
31
31
32
33
34
35
37
39
39
39
40
41
41
43
47
47
49
51
53
54
7.
7.1.
7.2.
8.
8.1.
8.2.
8.3.
9.
10.
5.
6.
6.1.
6.2.
6.2.1.
6.2.2.
6.3.
6.3.1.
6.3.2.
6.4.
6.5.
6.5.1.
6.5.2.
6.5.3.
CONTENTS
2 DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION OF SUSTAINABILTY REPORTS
In this day and age, investors want a broad and comprehensive
understanding of how companies are doing business, going
beyond financial performance to include environmental, social
and governance aspects and incorporating information on
these practices into their investment analysis.
Meanwhile, companies—in line with market demands and regulations—have met the challenge of providing more and better
information while bolstering transparency and best practices,
which are key to adding value to their performance.
As a result, sustainability and financial performance have become increasingly intertwined, demonstrated by the number
of companies that have incorporated a sustainability agenda
into their business strategy.
We believe that stock exchanges play a key role in building more
sustainable capital markets and developing regulations and
best practices that reflect both advancements and market
requirements on such topics.
This conviction inspired Santiago Exchange to develop a Sustainability Reporting Guide to help issuers prepare and publish
information related to environmental, social and governance
(ESG) matters.
PROLOGUE OF SANTIAGO EXCHANGE
3 DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION OF SUSTAINABILTY REPORTS
In addition to emphasizing the importance of effectively and
credibly disclosing relevant information for investors, the
guide is designed to educate issuers on the benefits to them
of providing ESG information. These include identifying new
business opportunities; anticipating changes in standards,
regulations or social issues; reducing costs; accessing capital
and improving customer loyalty, among others.
This document also features recommendations for establishing a corporate sustainability program; different sustainability reporting initiatives and global sustainability principles;
metrics for measuring performance (as recommended by the
World Federation of Exchanges, WFE); and questions to guide
preparers of sustainability reports.
Lastly, this Sustainability Reporting Guide reflects Santiago
Exchange's commitment to strengthen and drive the development of sustainable matters in capital markets, demonstrating
considerable progress in the market's regulatory development
and thereby enhancing financial performance.
José Antonio Martínez
Chief Executive Officer
Santiago Exchange
4 DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION OF SUSTAINABILTY REPORTS
The environmental, political and economic forces which influence our lifes are complex systems. There are no easy ways, no
silver bullets that can ensure food, water and energy security
or create a green and inclusive economy without effort. But we
have to master these challenges in order to secure our future
on this planet, our ability to live in peace and prosperity and in
harmony with nature for generations to come. The transformations that we need to achieve require massive investments, on
a scale that go well beyond what public finances can provide.
Our success in resolving these challenges, therefore, will be
determined as much by how well we can mobilize private capital
to finance these investments, as by issues of global political
governance and national social consensus. The governance,
transparency and accountability of capital markets are therefore critical issues for sustainable development.
For this reason, UN Environment is pushing for more transparent capital markets that deal openly and honestly with relevant
environmental, social and governance issues. Transparency
on these issues in corporate reports promotes greater awareness of the risks and opportunities that companies must
manage in order to succeed, and that investors will need to
assess and integrate into their investment decisions. Happily,
this is also one of those rare situations where there is a winwin solution. Transparency can also enhance the quality of
management, as well as motivating investment--over the past
decade, a growing body of empirical evidence demonstrates
the material importance of effective sustainability strategies
for corporate efficiency and profitability. More efficient and
profitable enterprises; rational investment choices in new technologies and products; greater resource efficiency; socially
PROLOGUE OF SUSTAINABLE
STOCK EXCHANGES
5 DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION OF SUSTAINABILTY REPORTS
responsible business practices; and well-informed consumer
choices--these all contribute in an essential way to creating a
sustainable future for us all.
Stock exchanges globally list over USD 70 trillion of market
capitalization. They play a central role in connecting investors, companies and regulators and can be a major driver in
promoting global sustainability. Integrating sustainability into
business operations is at its heart good business and good for
business. Market transparency and information exchange is a
cornerstone of this effort.
The 2030 Sustainable Development Agenda, with its 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), which the global community of nations adopted in September 2015 outline both the
challenges our world faces, as well as the opportunities that
we can realize in working to achieve these goals. Target 6 of
SDG 12 focuses on the importance of corporate reporting.
Ensuring that relevant environmental, social and governance
risks and opportunities are measured and disclosed effectively requires engagement and dialogue along the investment
value chain. This guide provides a compelling case and a useful
roadmap for companies to help advance corporate reporting
in the Chilean market. It draws on lessons learned from experience with corporate reporting in various forms from around
the world, to provide guidance to corporations in preparing
and conducting sustainability reports, and to help identify
and communicate the value of sustainability for business and
society. UN Environment, along with the other organizing partners of the UN's Sustainable Stock Exchanges initiative, is
proud to be supporting the Santiago Stock Exchange in this
endeavour, and we look forward to further close collaboration
in advancing the sustainability agenda.
Elliott Harris
Assistant Secretary-General
and Head of UN Environment
UN Environment
6 DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION OF SUSTAINABILTY REPORTS
INTRODUCTION
When making investment decisions, it is increasingly important for investors to consider the integration of Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) policies and practices into
a company's valuation strategy. Therefore, for investors, the
transparency with which a company manages ESG risks and
opportunities has become part of its value proposition. As a
result, the global financial community recognizes that to thoroughly assess an investment, it must also analyze relevant
ESG factors.
Currently, in the Chilean market close to 44% of the securities
market's most representative issuers1
 disclose ESG information or prepare an annual sustainability report. In order to
provide guidance for issuers on ESG aspects and investors'
sustainability reporting requirements, Santiago Exchange has
developed this Sustainability Reporting Guide, based on the
Model Guidance on Reporting ESG Information to Investors
prepared by the United Nations Sustainable Stock Exchange
(SSE) Initiative in order to promote and propagate sustainability
in the local market. This Guide was also prepared as part of
Santiago Exchange's commitment arising from its involvement
in the SSE.
This guide provides insight into the benefits of ESG reporting
for issuers, as well as guidance on navigating the reporting
process so that they may effectively and credibly disclose ESG
information to investors.
01
1. This 44% represents 25 of the 57 issuers on the IGPA as of year-end 2015
with a free-float adjusted market capitalization of more than USD100 million.
7 DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION OF SUSTAINABILTY REPORTS
Can use this guide to understand the benefits and
implications of integrating sustainability into a
company's business strategy.
The preparation and disclosure of sustainability reports is
rapidly evolving. Companies practice a variety of reporting in
different industries, which proves that there is no one-sizefits-all approach to sustainability reporting. However, some
common international practices can be identified:
Adopting ongoing ESG reporting processes in line with
investor—and potentially other stakeholder—2
expectations.
Considering national securities laws, which may already require disclosure of material ESG information, and
international best practices.
Companies that have not yet begun reporting on sustainability
can use this guide to understand the benefits and implications
of integrating sustainability into a company's business strategy,
which is the first step in the ESG reporting process.
2. Stakeholders can be defined as individuals or groups who are
affected by, or can affect, the company's performance and longterm competitiveness. In addition to investors, stakeholders
generally include employees, suppliers, governments, regulators,
communities, consumers or customers and media, among others.
1
2
8 DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION OF SUSTAINABILTY REPORTS
ESG is called the environmental, social and
corporate governance issues of a company.
License to operate
Human capital
Employee retention and recruitment
Company value as an acquisition target
Ability to acquire other high-quality companies
It is important to note that while this document primarily uses
the term “ESG” because it is commonly used among investors,
the term “sustainability” is used interchangeably as it is more
common among companies. While subtle nuances exist, for the
purpose of this guide, both terms are seen as encompassing
the broad set of environmental, social and governance considerations that can impact a company’s performance. While
ESG factors are at times called “non-financial” or “extrafinancial”, how a company manages them undoubtedly has financial
consequences. They can impact:
02
WHAT IS SUSTAINABILITY OR ESG?
Access to capital
Cost savings and productivity
Risk management
Revenue growth and market access
Brand value and reputation
9 DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION OF SUSTAINABILTY REPORTS
2.1 ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS
The main risks or opportunities are related to managing natural resources and preventing pollution or contamination.
Another important aspect is the reduction of greenhouse
gas emissions given the potential impact on climate change
and the global nature of the challenge. Improper management
of environmental risk can impact a company's financial performance because of risks of fines or penalties, creation of
environmental liabilities and stoppage of operations by either
regulators or the community.
In contrast, effective management of environmental variables can reduce short- and long-term costs and, as a result,
increase the company's value.
2.2 SOCIAL ASPECTS
The social risks and opportunities that can impact a business's
performance are centered around the relations and policies
that each company has with three stakeholders: employees,
customers and the community.
▶ Employees: The main indicators to address in this area
include: diversity, occupational health, employer-employee
relations, adherence to labor laws and optimum working conditions in the supply chain. Opportunities for effective human
resource management are related to improved productivity,
reduced turnover and absenteeism, talent retention and openness to new ideas and business innovation.
▶ Customers: If the product or service provided by the company has quality and safety standards, fair treatment and the
use of emerging technology channels3
, opportunities are related to brand loyalty, increased sales, reduced risk of litigation
and bad reputation.
▶ Community: A company's relationship with the community
has become a key element of both its operations and its growth.
Consideration of communities' rights and practices that are
generally responsible and friendly are determining factors for
strengthening brand loyalty, obtaining and maintaining licenses
to operate and protecting a company's reputation and value.
3. Emerging technology channels include Facebook,
Twitter, Instagram, among others.
A company's relationship with the community has
become a key element of both its operations and
its growth.
10 DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION OF SUSTAINABILTY REPORTS
2.3 GOVERNANCE ASPECTS
Corporate governance is managed internally within organi
-
zations and the transparency of the information is relevant
in being accountable to shareholders, regulators and the ge
-
neral public. A strategy that works actively to instill business
ethics will prevent incidences of bribery and corruption and
will also have an influence on the company or organization's
reputation. Similarly, the integration of codes of conduct and
policies that promote transparency presents opportunities for
improvements in a company's performance, risk management
and reputation.
11 DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION OF SUSTAINABILTY REPORTS
Sustainable development meets the needs of the present without
compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own
needs. This is the general definition of sustainable development
first published in Our Common Future, prepared by the United
Nations World Commission on Environment and Development
(1987). This definition helped shift companies' visions, which began
to incorporate a broader perspective on economic growth into
their role and future outlook.
3.1 THE ROLE OF ISSUERS
In a world where society has increasingly higher expectations regarding the conduct and behavior of companies, natural resources are
more and more scarce and climate impacts are a lurking concern for
individuals, issuers are called to promote and play a leading role in the
sustainable development of the economy, striking a balance between
the economic, social and environmental results of their operations.
03
SUSTAINABILITY IN CAPITAL MARKETS
Today, a company's role in sustainability is to continuously seek
the economic viability of the business, coexisting in harmony with
the environment and the neighboring community.
3.2 THE ROLE OF INVESTORS
A strong financial performance is no longer the only criterion that
investors are considering when making investment decisions. Investors fiduciary duties require the consideration of all financial
materially factors, which includes ESG factors4
. In recent years
there has been increased adoption of Responsible Investment,
which takes into account financial criteria such as returns and risk
as well as ESG considerations that affect issuers5
.
The financial industry has begun recognizing the importance of
risks and opportunities related to ESG performance and impact,
mainly because effective research, analysis and management of
these areas have been demonstrated to be a key part of evaluating
an investment's performance in the short-, medium- and long-term
(for more information see the Guide to Responsible Investment6
).
4. For more information, see Fiduciary Duty in the 21st Century.
5. The growth of the UN-supported Principles for Responsible Investment can
be seen as a proxy for this growth. PRI has over 1500 signatories, representing
more than USD $60 trillion assets under management, in 57 countries.
6. The Guide to Responsible Investing is an initiative by Santiago Exchange,
in partnership with EY, designed to explain the implications of sustainability
for investors and help them integrate ESG matters into investment decisions
and practices. For more information see web site of Santiago Exchange.
12 DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION OF SUSTAINABILTY REPORTS
3.3 THE ROLE OF EXCHANGES
Exchanges have a fundamental role in building sustainable capital
markets. As a meeting point for the diverse players that make up
the market, exchanges play a leading role in setting standards and
developing and promoting good practices that strengthen the capital market and society as a “whole.” This is why Santiago Exchange
works every day to continuously develop the organization and the
capital markets through ongoing knowledge, understanding and
practice of the highest standards of transparency, responsible
investment and corporate governance.
Santiago Exchange began working with corporate sustainability
by joining major initiatives, such as the United Nations Sustainable
Stock Exchange (SSE) Initiative and the World Federation of Exchanges Sustainable Working Group (SWG). In addition, in its role
as a promoter of best practices in sustainability, it has proposed
recommendations for issuers listed with Santiago Exchange7
, in
order to strengthen the stock market's transparency and enhance
information provided by issuers to investors. In addition, it has
developed tools to encourage Responsible Investment in the
capital market, including the first local sustainability index, the
Dow Jones Sustainability Chile Index (DJSI Chile), and the Guide
to Responsible Investing. Along with this Guide, these tools are
helping raise the sustainability standard in Chile and improve the
transparency around how sustainability is being integrated into
the business strategies of Chilean issuers.
“Sustainable development meets the needs of
the present without compromising the ability of
future generations to meet their own needs.”
7. Santiago Exchange identified a series of recommendations grouped into
three information categories: market operations, financial reporting and
investor relations. For more information see web site of Santiago Exchange.
Our Common Future, United Nations World Commission on Environment and Development (1987).
13 DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION OF SUSTAINABILTY REPORTS
04
WHY REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY
4.1 INVESTOR INTEREST IN ESG FACTORS
A growing number of investors are incorporating ESG aspects
in the investment process8
. For these investors, a company's
sustainability report provides insight into the quality of corporate management and helps them forecast performance. For
these reasons, more and more investors are asking companies
to communicate how they are managing ESG-related risks and
opportunities.
The tools most widely used by investors to assess a company's
sustainability performance include:
Public information on the company: this includes financial
reports that include material ESG factors, annual sustainability reports and mandatory, statutory questionnaires generally
required by regulators.
ESG risk rating agencies: companies specialized in assessing corporate performance on ESG aspects. The assessment, in most cases, is performed using public information or
with support from the company itself. The rating methods are
based on industry-specific standards that are comparable
with each other.
Sustainable performance indexes: indicators developed
by securities exchanges to rate and measure the performance of listed companies that use ESG aspects as selection criteria.
8. Global Sustainable Investment Review (2015) findings show that investors
who consider ESG factors in portfolio selection and management grew by
61% over the past two years, outpacing investment in conventional assets.
1
2
3
CONSIDERATIONS?
14 DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION OF SUSTAINABILTY REPORTS
DJSI CHILE
The Dow Jones Sustainability Index Chile (DJSI Chile), developed by Santiago Exchange in collaboration with S&P Dow
Jones Indices and RobecoSAM as an independent, external
assessor, presented its first results in 2015. This index is an
important tool for the decision-making process of investors
that consider ESG aspects when making an investment.
The DJSI Chile is the first local sustainability index and helps
internationalize ESG indicators for the equities market. It
is a globally standard metric that gives Chilean companies
worldwide exposure.
The methodology for this index is described below:
▶ Eligibility criteria: In the index's first year, the 40 companies on the Selective Stock Price Index (IPSA) were assessed. In 2016, the assessment was broadened to include
companies on the General Stock Price Index (IGPA) with
a free-float adjusted market capitalization of more than
USD100 million as of year-end 2015. The assessment is
expected to expand to more issuers in the future. There
are currently 21 companies on the index.
▶ Independent assessment: RobecoSAM, a Swiss company
that specializes in sustainability, was in charge of rating
the ESG performance of the companies invited to participate in the DJSI Chile. The assessment was conducted
using a voluntary, sector-specific questionnaire given
to issuers. The assessment also considers public information such as financial statements, press, corporate
websites, sustainability reports and information given
to supervisors.
▶ Analysis process: The analysis included 24 sectors from
the Global Industry Classification Standard, with 59
groups of issuers. It analyzed both generic dimensions
and other factors unique to the particular industry. The
industry-specific elements were the results of the questionnaire weighted differently based on the sector or
industry. For example, the banking sector was evaluated
on its asset laundering prevention policies, something
that is less relevant for an energy company. Thus, at the
end of the evaluation the “Total Sustainability Score”
(TSS) is obtained. This is used to select the companies
eligible for the Index based on a minimum sustainability
standard assigned per industry sector by RobecoSAM.
Based on the TSS obtained by the companies, the best
40% per industry is selected using the “Best-In-Class”
methodology. The weight of each company on the Index
is determined by its free-float adjusted market capitalization. No company may have a weight greater than 15%
on the DJSI Chile.
15 DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION OF SUSTAINABILTY REPORTS
4.2 REGULATORY DEVELOPMENTS
Governments around the world are responding to demands
for ESG information by taking action to drive corporate sustainability disclosures. Authorities recognize the importance of
strengthening market mechanisms that will help the country
achieve its objectives related to sustainable development9
.
As a result, a number of capital market regulators have introduced regulatory requirements governing corporate disclosure
of ESG information. In examining instruments in place in the
world’s 50 largest economies per GDP according the World
Bank, as of November 2016, there were10
:
▶ Over 100 regulations mandating the disclosure of environmental, social or governance information
▶ Over 200 measures mandating or encouraging sustainability-related disclosure instruments (a threefold increase
since 2006).
▶ Nearly 300 instruments overall, spanning corporate disclosure, investor stewardship codes and pension fund regulation regarding sustainability factors.
9. In September 2015, Chile committed to the Sustainable Development
Goals (SDG), as part of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development
approved by the Chiefs of State of the 193 United Nations
member countries, which includes 17 goals and 169 targets.
10. For more information see PRI responsable investment regulation.
16 DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION OF SUSTAINABILTY REPORTS
Establishing protocols for identifying, measuring and disclosing ESG factors can help companies stay ahead of such new
regulatory developments.
The Chilean Superintendency of Securities and Insurance (SVS)
has not fallen behind on such initiatives. In June 2015, it issued
two new standards (General Rules No. 385 and No. 386) that
aim to improve the disclosures made by issuers on matters
of corporate governance, corporate social responsibility and
sustainable development, among others.
Although adoption of these practices is not mandatory, the
overall objective is to create incentives for investors to make
investment decisions that favor companies in which their interests are better protected.
The main objectives of Rule No. 385 are to:
Foster the adoption of corporate social responsibility and
sustainable development policies, referring particularly to the
diversity of the company's board and senior executives.
Encourage the disclosure of information to shareholders
and the general public regarding corporate social responsibility
and sustainable development policies and practices and their
effectiveness.
Improve the quality and credibility of the information
contained in the board self-assessment through an external,
third-party evaluation.
1
2
3
17 DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION OF SUSTAINABILTY REPORTS
Establishing protocols for
identifying, measuring and
disclosing ESG factors can help
companies stay ahead of such new
regulatory developments.
▶ Board diversity (gender, nationality, age and years in office).
▶ Diversity of chief executive officer and other divisions that
report to the CEO or board of directors.
▶ Organizational diversity (gender, nationality, age and years
of service).
▶ Salary gap by gender.
Promote the adoption of national and international principles, directives and recommendations such as, for example,
those developed by The Committee of Sponsoring Organizations (COSO) or those contained in Control Objectives for
lnformation and Related Technology (COBIT) created by ISACA
or ISO 31000:2009 and ISO 31004:2013.
Specify measures for addressing conflicts of interest
and procedures for updating the Board Code of Conduct.
Therefore, the new Rule No. 386 calls for incorporating the
following information regarding corporate social responsibility
and sustainable development into the company's annual report:
5
4
18 DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION OF SUSTAINABILTY REPORTS
The evidence suggests that strong corporate
performance on ESG factors correlates
positively with improved cost of capital and
financial performance.
11. Deutsche Asset & Wealth Management (2015) ESG & Corporate Financial
Performance: Mapping the global landscape.
12. Khan, Mozaffar, Serafeim, George, Yoon, Aaron (2015 Corporate
Sustainability: First Evidence on Materiality, Working Paper 15-073, Harvard
Business School.
4.3 STRENGTHENING FINANCIAL
PERFORMANCE
A growing number of studies make the business case for
companies to fully integrate sustainability into their business
strategy. The evidence suggests that strong corporate performance on ESG factors correlates positively with improved
cost of capital and financial performance11
.
A 2015 study suggests that companies that perform well on
material ESG factors significantly outperform peers with poor
performance on these issues12. The performance of sustainability indexes reflects that companies that integrate ESG
aspects into their business strategy obtain better financial
returns than their peers. This can be seen by examining the
performance of sustainability indexes developed by exchanges
around the world.
19 DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION OF SUSTAINABILTY REPORTS
PERFORMANCE OF ISE13 VERSUS THE BRAZILIAN MARKET INDEX
(BM&FBOVESPA)
Source: Bloomberg 2016.
FIXED-BASE INDEX: 2011 = 100
July 2011 - June 2016
140
2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016
130
120
110
100
90
80
70
60
50
ISE Index IBOV Index
PERFORMANCE OF FTSE4GOOD IBEX14 VERSUS
IBEX35 ON THE SPANISH STOCK EXCHANGE (BME).
FIXED-BASE INDEX: 2011 = 100
July 2011 - June 2016
140
2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016
130
120
110
100
90
80
70
60
50
FTSEIBEX Index IBEX Index
13. ISE is an indicator of average stock price performance of
a maximum of 40 companies with a recognized commitment
to corporate sustainability in the BM&FBovespa.
14. FTSE4Good IBEX is comprised of companies on the Spanish
Stock Exchange (BME) that comply with sustainability eligibility
criteria and belong to the IBEX 35 and FTSE Spain All Cap.
20 DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION OF SUSTAINABILTY REPORTS
PERFORMANCE OF DJSI CHILE VERSUS SPBMI CHILE PERFORMANCE OF DJSI CHILE VERSUS IPSA
Source: Bloomberg 2016.
115
09-2015 12-2015 03-2016 06-2016
110
105
100
95
90
DJSCLCP Index IPSA Index
115
09-2015 12-2015 03-2016 06-2016
110
105
100
95
90
DJSCLCP Index SPBMI CHILE Index
FIXED-BASE INDEX: 2015 = 100
September 2015 - June 2016
THE S&P CHILE BMI (BROAD MARKET INDEX) IS A SUBSET OF THE S&P LATIN AMERICA BMI.
THE INDEX IS DESIGNED TO SERVE AS A CHILEAN MARKET BENCHMARK.
FIXED-BASE INDEX: 2015 = 100
September 2015 - June 2016
21 DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION OF SUSTAINABILTY REPORTS
Reporting on how sustainability initiatives are linked to strategy, financial performance and valuation provides important
benefits. The figures above demonstrate that in the Brazilian
and Spanish markets sustainability indexes perform better in
the long term than the market indexes on which they are based.
While the trend in the Chilean market is not as clear, this could
be because the DJSI Chile is a relatively new sustainability index
and these processes need time to take root in the economy,
similar to what happened in Spain.
Integrating sustainability into company valuation will assist in
communicating how a company is addressing the world’s most
pressing challenges: poverty, education, climate change, biodiversity, transparency and competition, etc. Addressing these
challenges promotes more prosperous economic systems and
more stable and resilient markets that benefit all participants.
4.4 CUSTOMERS AND CONSUMERS WITH
INTEREST IN ESG FACTORS
Customers and consumers around the world are increasingly
concerned about purchasing products that satisfy environmental requirements, using renewable materials, recyclable
packaging and environmentally friendly waste.
This is supported by a global survey applied by Tetra Pak in
201515, where some 6,000 consumers across 12 different countries were surveyed, including consumers from United States,
Brazil, France, China, India and others. Of the results, regarding
their recent purchasing habits, 70% of consumers said they
had purchased an environmental product, even if it costs more,
while 66% confessed to having avoided a particular product
or brand for environmental reasons. 15. Millward Bromn (2015) Environment research.
Customers and consumers concerned about ESG factors is a
growing trend, which expands beyond the food industry. This is
why companies have included taking care of the environment
and other sustainable factors as part of their business strategy.
Focusing on the use of materials of responsible and renewable
origin is considered like a key factor in product differentiation.
22 DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION OF SUSTAINABILTY REPORTS
ON SUSTAINABILITY
05
PRIMARY BENEFITS OF REPORTING
The primary benefits expected from preparing sustainability
reports include:
ACCESS TO CAPITAL
▶ Demonstrate transparency and effective management and
enhance the company’s ability to attract long-term capital
and favorable long-term financing conditions.
▶ Enhance the company’s ability to attract longer-term investors, including major institutional investors.
PROFITABILITY AND GROWTH
▶ Generate financial value for the company by identifying
opportunities for cost savings, new revenue generation
and risk mitigation.
▶ Drive continuous improvement by creating accountability
and fostering collaboration with stakeholders.
▶ Create a deeper understanding of stakeholder needs, which
could drive innovation and enhance market differentiation
and competitiveness.
23 DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION OF SUSTAINABILTY REPORTS
▶ Enable management and board scrutiny of ESG opportunities
and risks, and promote company-wide alignment on goals.
COMPLIANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT
▶ Address mandatory reporting requirements on financially
material factors and mitigate compliance risks related to
financial disclosure obligations.
▶ Establish measurements for ESG aspects that are material
for the company.
▶ Help the company stay ahead of emerging sustainability
and disclosure regulations.
▶ Protect the company’s license to operate by demonstrating
corporate transparency and responsiveness to stakeholder needs.
CORPORATE REPUTATION AND BRANDING
▶ Demonstrate corporate commitments to responsibly managing environmental, social, and economic impacts.
▶ Exhibit corporate adherence to ethical standards, ESG regulatory frameworks, sustainable development goals, etc.
24 DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION OF SUSTAINABILTY REPORTS
ENHANCED INVESTOR RELATIONS
AND ENGAGEMENT
▶ Improve relationships and understanding with investors
by engaging with stakeholders throughout the process of
identifying relevant indicators for sustainability reporting.
MEASURABLE ACHIEVEMENTS
▶ Measure the impact of ESG factors on the business strategy.
Sustainability reporting enables the measurement of success
or progress of ESG issues in key corporate strategies as well
as impacts of corporate practices, providing an annual basis
of comparison and promoting improvement strategies.
▶ Enhance corporate reputation by improving stakeholders’
perception of a company through reporting-related stakeholder engagement.
▶ Improve employee perception of the company, helping to attract, retain, motivate and align new and existing employees.
INFORMATION FLOW
▶ Ensure that the key stakeholder(s) has the relevant information that is needed to make informed decisions about
the company’s ability to create value in the short, medium
and longer term.
Sustainability reporting generates financial value for
the company by identifying opportunities for cost
savings, new revenue generation and risk mitigation.
25 DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION OF SUSTAINABILTY REPORTS
RECOMMENDATIONS FOR INTEGRATING SUSTAINABILITY
Thirteen steps for integrating and moving forward on corporate
sustainability, established by BM&FBovespa:
Start by involving senior management and the board: In
order to be effective and generate value for the company, the
decision to get involved with sustainability must come from
the senior management and benefits from board involvement.
Identify what needs to change: A diagnostic is key in identifying a company's existing gaps and implementing a short-,
medium- and long-term action plan. This process will also help
identify the organization's alignment needs and whether its
existing infrastructure, processes and systems are suitable
for the new challenges.
Set priorities: After performing the diagnostic, the next
step is to define priorities. Priorities must be set based on
the concept of materiality, which is broadly used in legal and
accounting matters, and can also be used to define sustainability strategies. An issue is material when it is important
and a priority for stakeholders, corporate viability and/or the
company's internal management.
Commit publicly: There are several collaborative initiatives
that require public commitments to sustainable development
that can help the company formulate its strategy and integrate ESG aspects through a learning network and stakeholder
engagement. The United Nations Global Compact, launched
in 2000, is one example.
Establish sustainable corporate governance: In order
to guide the company on ESG aspects, short- and long-term
decisions must be made by creating a corporate governance
3
5
1
2
4
structure that is focused on sustainability and incorporates directors' committees, working groups or sustainability areas into
the company. Depending on the size of the company, the person
in charge of corporate sustainability should be a professional
with access to senior management. While this person does
not necessarily need to report directly to the chairman, CFO
or CEO, the board and senior management should be involved
in setting sustainability objectives and oversight. Depending
on the industry and maturity of the company's sustainability
strategy, the sustainability area might be part of the:
a. Finance/Risk Area
b. Corporate Affairs Area
c. Communications Area
d. Human Resources Area
e. Operations Area
26 DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION OF SUSTAINABILTY REPORTS
Confirm the corporate identity: Performing the above
steps might have led to some changes in the organization that
affect the company's identity. As a result, the mission, vision
and values need to be reviewed in order to reflect the new
commitments adopted.
Engage with stakeholders: Dialoging formally with stakeholders enables the company to better understand how its
activities impact the environment and society in order to create
mitigation or compensation plans. It also helps identify its investors' information needs and any business opportunities or
improvements required by customers.
Draw up a sustainability policy: This is a key step to translate sustainable strategies and commitments into objectives
and management guidelines. It must contain the basic guidelines
for managing sustainability within the company, facilitating
planning and execution of actions in the different business
areas. A good policy should be short, objective and distributed
to all company stakeholders, starting with the organization's
internal groups.
Involve internal stakeholders: To ensure a successful corporate strategy, the entire organization must be aligned. This
logic also applies when implementing a sustainability strategy.
Embedding the company’s commitment to sustainability into
its corporate culture can include training programs, codes
of ethics and internal communications campaigns, among
other activities.
Adjust management systems: As a company integrates
sustainability into its business strategy and organizational
culture, it might need to adapt its corporate commitments,
management systems and performance evaluation processes.
One necessary step is to draft and distribute new corporate
policies on topics such as sustainability, the environment, labor
matters, social issues and risk. These policies require management systems to monitor execution by establishing processes
and procedures and selecting and calculating key indicators.
Identify and monitor indicators: Indicators must be defined based on the organization's desired objectives, its industry
and the maturity of its sustainability strategy. They must be
communicated to the entire organization and reviewed periodically (at least once a year). There are several ESG reporting
initiatives that are a major source of information and can help
companies identify the key indicators per industry. (See Chapter
7: "Considerations in Preparing a Sustainability Report").
6
8
10
7 9
11
27 DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION OF SUSTAINABILTY REPORTS
Set goals: If the organization wishes to demonstrate its
commitment to sustainability, it must set clear goals for the key
indicators identified. They must ideally be public information in
order to facilitate internal and external monitoring of compliance.
Report achievements and challenges: Transparency is a
must for a company to win its stakeholders' trust. The best way
to achieve this is by disclosing its ESG information, either in the
form of supplementary sustainability reports or an integrated
report that includes information on a company's economic, social and environmental aspects as a result of a unified strategy.
13
12
28 DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION OF SUSTAINABILTY REPORTS
06
RECOMMENDATIONS FOR PREPARING
In the following section, Santiago Exchange provides Chilean
issuers recommendations for preparing to report on ESG consideration.
 A SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
6.1 RESPONSIBILITY AND OVERSIGHT
The initial stages of report preparation provide an opportunity to determine who within a company is best placed to be
involved in creating the report. Regardless of the amount of
resources allocated, the group should be multidisciplinary as
reports benefit from the knowledge and expertise of those
who come to together to prepare them.
As a practical first measure, it is useful to determine within a company the roles, responsibilities and capabilities that are relevant
for sustainability reporting, including identifying appropriate
personnel and coordinating among them. It is recommended that
senior management lead the ESG reporting process, demonstrating commitment to high-quality reporting and providing strategic
input into, and oversight over, the process, in order to guarantee
proper execution. Different departments (such as finance, investor relations, communications, legal, sustainability and each
business unit) make valuable contributions to the outcome of a
report. Any team working on sustainability reporting should have
access to input from across the functional divisions of a company,
as different functions within the company may be engaging with
different stakeholders and managing material issues.
29 DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION OF SUSTAINABILTY REPORTS
A company’s board of directors plays an essential role in relation
to organization-wide integration and oversight of the reporting process. As the board of directors has responsibility for
oversight of the strategic direction of a company, integrating
sustainability considerations into the company’s strategy is an
appropriate aspect of the board’s role. It is thus worthwhile for
companies to define their sustainability rationales and objectives with their boards of directors, and provide governance
mechanisms for addressing these factors at all levels of the
organization. By embedding sustainability into their core duties,
directors can position themselves to ensure the mainstreaming
of ESG factors into business strategy, organizational culture
and operational practices in a way that supports the long-term
profitability and viability of the company.
Boards may find it beneficial to issue a statement that clarifies
how the board determined:
The importance of different stakeholders.
Which ESG factors are material and how were they selected.
Within what time frame it made these judgments, as they change
over time.
While these statements are not currently commonplace, they
are an emerging best practice. Developing such a statement is
also an opportunity for the board to reflect on the company’s
role in society and contribution to sustainable development. It
By embedding sustainability into their core duties, directors
can position themselves to ensure the mainstreaming of ESG
factors into business strategy, organizational culture and
operational practices.
1
2
3
30 DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION OF SUSTAINABILTY REPORTS
can provide transparency regarding the board’s position on and
oversight of the company’s ESG risks and opportunities, and
strengthen the company’s credibility when communicating on
sustainability measures.
A board leadership commitment to reporting on sustainability
lends credibility to a company’s claims and publications about its
ESG commitments and performance. In order to evaluate quality of
management, many investors examine not only ESG performance
and the quality of disclosures, but also the management of risks
and opportunities by executive teams and boards.
6.2 CLARITY OF PURPOSE
6.2.1 Supporting Corporate Strategy
In addition to the benefits of the report itself, a company also
derives value from the process of creating it. High-quality
corporate reporting can help a company define guidelines
for achieving various goals in relation to internal and external
stakeholders and inform decision-making (particularly that of
investors). While reporting provides decision-useful information
for stakeholders, the process of compiling this information
can also strengthen internal reporting systems beneficial to
the management of a company. As such, there is a need for
clear links between reporting needs and strategic goals, the
business model, risks, opportunities, operational indicators
and financial performance. With strong connections between
these areas, a company becomes better able to identify and
31 DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION OF SUSTAINABILTY REPORTS
manage risk, evaluate and measure success, as well as identify
future challenges and opportunities.
6.2.2 Identifying and Understanding the Audience
When reporting information to investors, it is important to
remember that while all investors can benefit from ESG information, different investors can have distinct information
needs. Companies can therefore benefit from asking themselves the following questions:
Who are the company's top investors?
What kind of investors would the company like to have?
How has the company engaged with relevant investors to find
out what they are interested in?
For instance, investors with a long-term investment horizon, such
as pension funds, may be particularly interested in information
regarding risks, such as how climate change may affect the company in the medium or long term. While some investors may only
be interested in material information that is being disclosed within
a financial or integrated report, others may want supplemental,
detailed sustainability information in a stand-alone report. These considerations are important to clarify early in the reporting
process, as they will help define the content, scope and format
of reporting, as well as engagement efforts.
While this guide focuses on facilitating transparency between
investors and issuers, investors’ information needs go beyond
investors themselves. Investors are interested in how a company
communicates with other key stakeholders, which can have a material impact on company operations (e.g., workers, consumers or
customers, communities, governments). Investors recognize that
 Investors recognize
that a company’s ability
to create value in the
long term depends on
its interactions with its
stakeholders and use of
resources.
1
2
3
32 DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION OF SUSTAINABILTY REPORTS
a company’s ability to create value in the long term depends on
its interactions with its stakeholders and use of resources.
6.3 RELEVANCE AND MATERIALITY
While companies have a number of sustainability reporting objectives, the materiality of information and its relevance for investors is a key consideration in determining the scope and content
of a company’s reporting. With a range of potential ESG factors
to disclose, companies should focus efforts on material factors
that are relevant to the company. Auditors and attorneys use the
concept of "materiality" in corporate social responsibility (CSR),
defining it to include those issues that are especially relevant
for an organization's sustainability as they reflect their most
significant economic, environmental and social effects and/or
substantially influence the evaluations, decisions and perceptions
of stakeholders.
Different organizations have different interpretations and recommendations on how the concept of materiality could be applied to
sustainability reporting16. As an example, the US Supreme Court
defined material information as the one that has "substantial
likelihood that the omission in disclosure of the fact could be
viewed by the reasonable investor as having significantly altered
the ‘total mix’ of information made available”, recognizing that it
is important information for investor’s decisions.
Likewise, different stakeholder groups have distinct views on
which ESG factors are material for a company. The company must
adopt the definition most used by its stakeholders, market regulators or industry sector.
Identifying relevant issues is a starting point for identifying material factors. Information is “relevant” when it influences the
opinion or decision of users by helping them to evaluate past,
present or future events, or by confirming or correcting their
past evaluations. As such, understanding the reporting audience
is critical to determining what information should be included in
a sustainability report. For determining material factors, it can
be useful to gage how much an issue might potentially affect the
company’s ability to create value over time.
In addition to material information, a company may decide to report
on other factors that do not meet the threshold for materiality,
but may still be relevant to the company’s operational and/or
reputational performance. For example, a company’s perspective
16. For more information see Chapter 7 :” Considerations in preparing a
sustainability report”
33 DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION OF SUSTAINABILTY REPORTS
on what is material to investors may diverge from what, in its view,
is significant to society. Therefore, one company may decide to
report only on material information, whereas another may report
all information it deems significant to its stakeholders
Whether a company decides to apply a strict interpretation
of materiality when considering which ESG information to report, or it takes a wider view, companies will strengthen their
reports by clearly articulating how the concept of materiality
has been applied.
6.3.1 Identifying Themes
Whether a company reports on a smaller number of only
the most material themes or a more comprehensive range,
an effective report covers ESG considerations that are relevant to business strategy and illustrates the link to both
long-term and, when possible, short-term value.
Thinking through each piece of a company’s value chain can help
develop a comprehensive understanding of the ESG themes
that could be relevant for disclosure. Additionally, it is often
helpful to reflect on the risks discussed in the company’s annual
management reports, as well as themes reported by peers. A
company can also use a variety of national and international
resources to develop an initial list of ESG themes, be they generic or sector-specific. For example, the UN Global Compact’s
10 Principles17 or the UN’s 17 Sustainable Development Goals18.
One area a company may benefit from further exploring is that
of intangible assets. One of the foremost of these intangibles
17. Global Compact is based on four broad concepts (Human Rights, Labor,
Environment and Anti-Corruption) and 10 main principles on sustainability
matters. The objective is to facilitate a basic understanding of what the
principles represent, how they relate to the business sector and how
they contribute as an essential part of the organizational philosophy of
theparticipating companies. For more information, see the 10 Principles.
18. L17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) of the 2030 Agenda for
Sustainable Development, adopted by world leaders in September
2015 at an historic UN Summit officially came into force on 1 January
2016. Over the next fifteen years, with these new Goals that universally
apply to all, countries will mobilize efforts to end all forms of poverty,
fight inequalities and tackle climate change, while ensuring that
no one is left behind. For more information, see the 17 Goals.
for many firms is human capital, and good ESG practices are
recognized as key drivers of employee attraction, motivation
34 DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION OF SUSTAINABILTY REPORTS
and retention. Another intangible is brand image, and again
good ESG practices affect consumer or customer interest in
products and services and the company’s license to operate
in the eyes of governments and local communities.
Another relevant element of company value is tied to “natural
capital”, which relates to the raw material inputs and environmental processes. Companies are increasingly challenged by risks,
such as resource depletion, species loss and climate change
impacts. As a result, better management of natural capital is
believed to have an impact on companies’ long-term viability.
6.3.2 Adopting Relevant Performance Indicators
Once a company has established which ESG themes to report
on, it can begin to disclose specific performance indicators to
demonstrate progress in a sustainability report. These indicators may be generic, industry-specific or company-specific. It is
recommended that companies use widely accepted indicators
developed via a credible, recognized international process. The
Sustainability Reporting Guidelines of Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), for example, produces the most widely used set of
indicators for corporate sustainability reporting.
35 DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION OF SUSTAINABILTY REPORTS
When reporting ESG indicators, investors appreciate information
that appears in the appropriate context, including comparisons to:
▶ Historical company and industry trends.
▶ Related corporate goals.
▶ Relevant ratios.
▶ Industry averages.
▶ Financial results/performance.
As investors seek to understand how ESG information is linked
to the company’s business strategy and financial performance,
quantitative data is in high demand because it can be more
easily compared across time within the same company or with
similar data from other companies. Such data is also useful
for enhancing investment valuation and credit rating models.
To effectively use indicators, companies can:
▶ Consult nationally or internationally recognized reporting guidelines and protocols for measuring, preparing and presenting ESG
metrics to improve the quality of a company’s disclosure.
▶ Explain why indicators increased or decreased year-to-year. Investors also appreciate knowing the company’s perception of
this, and how this might change in the future.
▶ Explain methodologies for data collection in the report, along with
why these were used.
▶ Supplement qualitative narratives with quantitative data, benchmarks and targets, and vice versa.
▶ Explain the link between ESG metrics and financial performance,
by demonstrating how ESG initiatives drive growth, productivity
and risk management in monetary terms, where possible.
▶ Report on challenges and mistakes as well as accomplishments.
Moreover, in many jurisdictions, information on regulatory infractions or penalties is available independently through the regulator's
information channel. If stakeholders have access to this information and do not see it in corporate reporting, this diminishes the
credibility of the corporate report. Investors understand that no
company has a perfect record on every ESG issue; an honest discussion builds rapport with shareholders and other stakeholders
alike, and often wards against more aggressive engagement.
36 DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION OF SUSTAINABILTY REPORTS
6.4 ACCESSIBILITY
The right disclosure channels ensure investors receive relevant, easily accessible, comparable and timely information. It is
advantageous for companies to be familiar with their targeted
audiences’ preferred ESG information sources, and to update
these with timely and accurate news about their performance.
To accommodate variable information needs and interests,
it may be relevant to use different communication channels,
including websites, voluntary or mandatory regulatory filings,
annual reports, sustainability reports and other company
reports. Using more than one communication channel can be
an effective way to ensure that a company’s complete target
audience gets the necessary information. To make the information more accessible to international investors, companies
may also wish to disseminate their ESG information in English,
in addition to the Spanish version.
The appropriate channels for ESG disclosure also depend on a
company’s regulatory context and business and communication
strategy. Securities regulations or listing rules may require a
company to integrate financially material ESG information into
its financial disclosures and other mandatory investor communications and regulatory filings. Similarly, given a company’s
own analysis of information needs and expectations, it may
decide to include certain ESG information in the company’s
financial disclosure even if not required.
Using more than one
communication channel
can be an effective way to
ensure that a company’s
complete target audience
gets the necessary
information.
37 DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION OF SUSTAINABILTY REPORTS
Stand-alone sustainability
reporting
Financial reporting with
material ESG factors Integrated reporting
Sustainability reports
address the relevant ESG
information needs of
investors and sometimes
other stakeholders, such as
consumers or customers and
the community.
After a company determines certain ESG factors are
material to its business over
a specific time horizon, it
may decide to include this
information in its financial
reports. These likely cover
a smaller set of ESG factors
than the other options listed.
An integrated report is a
concise communication
about how an organization’s strategy, management, performance and
prospects, in the context of
its external environment,
lead to the creation of value over the short, medium
and long term.
Illustrated below are three examples of communication channels a company may consider for disclosing ESG information to
stakeholders. As mentioned above, many companies pursue a
suite of complementary reporting channels and the processes
to compile one can feed into the other.
Regardless of the format, there are a few overarching practices
to keep in mind:
If sustainability disclosure is separate from financial disclosure, it is recommended that the two types of disclosure
are published for the same reporting period. This will allow
investors to consider financial information within the context
of ESG information. Cross-references within these documents
ensure connectivity and accessibility of information.
1
38 DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION OF SUSTAINABILTY REPORTS
It is important to ensure consistency among the information reported in different communication channels. For example,
a company would not want to have one channel emphasizing the
critical nature of an issue to its business and then not discuss
that issue in another communication channel.
It is critical that the information is easy to find, for example by producing an online content index with hyperlinks to
boost digital accessibility indicating where all existing ESG
information can be found.
Overall, reporting is most effective when the language
used and the way the information is presented is clear and
relevant for investors and connects to a company’s ability to
create value in the short, medium and long term.
6.5 CREDIBILITY AND RESPONSIVENESS
6.5.1 Robust Internal ESG Data Collection and
Management Processes
Better data leads to better decision-making and performance. First, it is useful to assess the capabilities of existing internal systems to collect concise, reliable and complete ESG
data. Rather than creating completely new channels, companies can make use of existing internal audit, risk and data control verification systems. If internal systems are not currently
sufficient for the task, a company may decide it is in its longterm best interest to invest in building capacity in this area.
If data collection gaps are identified, companies can identify
and explain them in their report.
6.5.2 Engaging for Continuous Improvement
Engaging stakeholders on ESG factors is best conducted as
a preventative rather than reactionary activity, as stakeholders can help a company identify, mitigate, and manage ESG
risks and opportunities before problems emerge. Stakeholder
engagement can also be a source of innovation, future opportunities and new partnerships that fuel strategic growth. Disclosing a company’s sustainability integration process can help
investors understand if and how well a company is integrating
ESG risks and opportunities into planning and operations, as
well as lend credibility to company claims about leadership in
ESG performance.
Systematic stakeholder engagement enhances receptivity and
the usefulness of corporate ESG information. Executed properly,
stakeholder engagement is likely to result in improved unders3
4
2
39 DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION OF SUSTAINABILTY REPORTS
tanding by the company of its strategic partners and resources,
strengthen relationships with stakeholders and foster higher
levels of trust among external parties regarding the company’s
actions and reporting.
6.5.3 Assessment and Control
ESG reports are made more credible by strong internal assessment processes and/or external assurance, if resources
permit. With respect to the former, an internal audit committee
or group of individuals, independent of the division tasked with
measuring and gathering the ESG information or indicators,
can review disclosure. An internal audit can also further ensure
that internal data collection systems are robust and organized.
Interest in externally assured sustainability reports, along with the
development of disclosure standards, has been driven by investor
requests for companies to bring ESG information up to financial
grade reporting for investment decision-making. If resources
allow, external assurance of sustainability reports can lend an
added degree of trust, credibility and recognition, just as financial
auditing does. Auditing/accounting firms and sustainability risk
rating agencies are the most common third-party assurance providers. In order to decide the type and level of assurance needed
for ESG information, it is important for companies to consider
recommended standards for assurance within their sector, as
well as stakeholder expectations.
40 DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION OF SUSTAINABILTY REPORTS
07
CONSIDERATIONS IN PREPARING
7.1 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING INITIATIVES
In preparing sustainability reports, it is recommended to
use a nationally or internationally recognized reporting initiative or ESG indicator identification tool, since they also
lend comparability.
The following tools can be used to identify relevant ESG factors
for the company and its stakeholders:
▶ The Sustainability Reporting Guidelines of Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), with over 140 indicators that address
ESG issues across all sectors, defined by their relevance
to stakeholders.
A SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
▶ UN Global Compact’s best practices related to the GC Advanced Communication on Progress in the areas of human
rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption.
▶ Indicators from the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) regarding climate change, water consumption and deforestation.
▶ Climate Disclosure Standards Board’s (CDSB) Framework for
reporting environmental information and natural capital in
mainstream financial reports.
▶ The International Integrated Reporting Framework (IIRC).
▶ The Sustainability Accounting Standards Board’s (SASB)
standards identify relevant factors by industry sector that
are comparable with each other.
▶ UN Guiding Principles Reporting Framework addresses
reporting on human rights according to the UN Guiding
Principles on Business and Human Rights
41 DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION OF SUSTAINABILTY REPORTS
Some details on the organizations that promote these standards:
▶ Global Reporting Initiative (GRI): The GRI initiative, created
in 1995 as a joint project between the United Nations Environment
Programme (UNEP) and the Coalition for Environmentally Responsible Economies, is an independent, international organization
that helps companies, governments and other organizations
communicate their businesses' impact on critical sustainability
issues such as: climate change, human rights, corruption, etc. It
includes more than 140 performance indicators, separated into
its Sustainability Reporting Standards.
▶ United Nations Global Compact: The United Nations Global
Compact is a call to companies everywhere to voluntarily align
their operations and strategies with ten universally accepted
principles in the areas of human rights, labor, environment and
anti-corruption, and to take action in support of UN goals and
issues. The UN Global Compact is a leadership platform for the
development, implementation and disclosure of responsible
corporate policies and practices. Launched in 2000, it is the
largest corporate sustainability initiative in the world, with
over 8,000 companies and 4,000 non-business signatories
based in 160 countries, and over 85 local networks. Business
participants are expected to publicly report on their progress
in an annual "Communication on Progress" (CoP).
▶ Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP): CDP is a global not-forprofit organization, founded in 2000 and headquartered in
London. The CDP standard defines ESG indicators on climate
change, sustainable water consumption and deforestation.
Companies report ESG information through annual questionnaires sent on behalf of institutional investors that endorse
them as "CDP signatories". These shareholder requests for
information encourage companies to publicly share information
on their greenhouse gas emissions and mitigation measures.
▶ Climate Disclosure Standards Board (CDSB): The Climate Disclosure Standards Board (CDSB) is an international
consortium of business and environmental NGOs founded in
2007 in London. They are committed to advancing and aligning
the global mainstream corporate reporting model to equate
natural capital with financial capital. As of late 2015, 341 companies in 32 countries used the CDSB framework for reporting
environmental information to stakeholders.
▶ International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC): Integrated reporting is an evolution of corporate reporting,
with a focus on conciseness, strategic relevance and future
orientation. It aims to improve accountability, management and
42 DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION OF SUSTAINABILTY REPORTS
trust as well as information flows and transparency entailed
with technology, providing investors with critical information
to make more effective capital allocation decisions, which will
facilitate better long-term profitability of their investments.
The first discussion paper was issued in 2011 in the United
Kingdom and the final version was published in 2013.
▶ Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB):
SASB, an independent, non-profit US-based organization, was
created in July 2011. Its mission is to develop and disseminate
industry-specific sustainability standards and indicators that
enable corporate performance to be compared. The indicator
matrices are constructed through a rigorous process that
includes evidence-based research and broad, balanced stakeholder participation.
▶ UN Guiding Principles Reporting Framework: The United
Nations Guiding Principles Reporting Framework is the first
comprehensive guidance for companies to report on human
rights issues in line with their responsibility to respect human
rights as set out in the UN Guiding Principles. It provides a
concise set of questions for a company to consider and report
on in order to know and show that it is meeting its responsibility to respect human rights in practice. It offers clear and
straightforward guidance on how to answer these questions
with relevant and meaningful information about human rights
policies, processes and performance.
7.2 PERFORMANCE MEASUREMENT METRICS
AThe following list of material sustainability indicators can
serve as a reference for issuers when preparing their sustainability reporting. These material ESG reporting indicators are
the result of an analysis of different sustainability standards
and tools conducted by the Sustainability Working Group of
the World Federation of Exchanges, of which Santiago Exchange has been a member since 2015. Note that the list is
not exhaustive, and companies are free to choose the most
applicable indicators according to their business.
43 DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION OF SUSTAINABILTY REPORTS
ESG aspect Metric Annual measurement or specification
Environmental Direct and indirect greenhouse gas (GHG)
emissions Total amount, metric tons.
Environmental Carbon intensity Total emissions relative to revenue.
Environmental Direct and indirect energy consumption Total amount, metric MWh.
Environmental Energy intensity Amount of direct energy used per M3 of space and FTE.
Environmental Primary energy source Cite specific energy type in majority of direct usage
Environmental Renewable energy intensity Percentage of direct energy consumption from renewable sources
Environmental Water management Total amount of water consumed, recycled or reclaimed, M3
Environmental Waste management Total amount of waste generated, recycled or reclaimed (by type and
weight)
Environmental Environmental policy Does your company publish and follow an environmental policy? Yes / No
Environmental Environmental impacts Did your company bear any legal/regulatory responsibility for an
environmental impact? Yes / No
Social CEO pay ratio Ratio: CEO salary and bonus to median FTE salary
Social Gender pay ratio Ratio: Median male salary to median female salary
44 DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION OF SUSTAINABILTY REPORTS
ESG aspect Metric Annual measurement or specification
Social Employee turnover rate Percentage of change for FTEs, contractors, consultants.
Social Gender diversity Percentage of FTE, contractor and consultant positions held by women.
Social Temporary worker rate Percentage of FT positions held by part-time/contract/temp workers.
Social Non-discrimination Does your company publish and follow a non-discrimination policy? Yes /
No
Social Injury rate Total number of injuries and fatalities relative to workforce
Social Global health Does your company publish and follow a policy for occupational and global
health issues? Yes / No
Social Child and forced labor Does your company prohibit the use of child or forced labor throughout the
supply chain? Yes / No
Social Human rights policy Does your company publish and follow a human rights policy or statement?
Yes / No
Social Human rights violations Number of grievances about human rights impacts filed, addressed or
resolved.
Social Board - diversity Percentage of board seats filled by independents and women.
Governance Board - separation of powers Does your company allow the CEO to sit on the board, act as chairman or
lead committees?
Governance Board - confidential voting Are your board votes (individually or collectively) made public? Yes / No
45 DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION OF SUSTAINABILTY REPORTS
ESG aspect Metric Annual measurement or specification
Governance Incentivized pay Are company executives formally incentivized to perform on ESG? Yes / No
Governance Fair labor practices Does your company (or supply chain) inhibit workers from organizing? Yes /
No
Governance Supplier code of conduct Does your company publish and follow a supplier code of conduct? Yes / No
Governance Ethics code of conduct Does your company publish and follow an ethical code of conduct? Yes / No
Governance Anti-corruption code Does your company publish and follow an anti-corruption code? Yes / No
Governance Tax transparency Does your company publish and follow a tax policy that is overseen by the
board? Yes / No
Other Sustainability report Does your company publish a sustainability report? Yes / No
Other Framework disclosures Does your company publish a GRI, CDP, SASB, IIRC or UN GC disclosure?
Other External assurance Are your company's ESG disclosures assured or validated by a third party?
Yes / No
46 DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION OF SUSTAINABILTY REPORTS
08
APPENDICES
8.1 QUESTIONS TO GUIDE REPORT
PREPARERS
The following questions may be useful to corporate issuers
as they prepare their ESG reports. Intended for those who
do not consider themselves advanced reporting experts, the
questions are arranged according to the reporting recommendations detailed in Chapter 6 of this document.
Overview
How is the company moving towards a sustainable business strategy?
How can ESG aspects support the achievement of business goals?
What are the existing reporting requirements imposed
by the market regulator?
Responsibility and Oversight
How can the company use ESG disclosure to engage and
align board members, senior executives and employees?
What are the key issues and future goals that relate to ESG
from the point of view of the CEO and/or Chairman?
How are board members, senior executives, and employees
involved in ESG-related decision-making, planning, monitoring
and activities?
1
3
5
4
2 6
47 DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION OF SUSTAINABILTY REPORTS
Clarity of Purpose and Responsiveness
What is the company’s main reporting objective(s)?
What are the key ESG factors that impact the company
strategy in terms of the risks and opportunities they present?
What are the company’s public commitments towards
sustainable development and corporate responsibility?
Who are the company’s priority stakeholders? What is the
process for identifying them and how often is that determination refreshed or updated? How does the company know what
ESG matters are relevant for these stakeholders?
Which ESG factors are most relevant for the company’s
current and potential investors?
What does the company know about its existing investor
base and its information needs?
How would the company like to evolve its investor roster
in the next five years?
What does the company know about the information needs
of its future investor roster?
Relevance and Materiality
What is the company’s materiality determination process
related to ESG matters?
How do ESG factors fit within the company’s existing materiality determination process?
Which ESG factors have the most impact on the company’s
long-term value creation?
Which ESG factors directly impact the company’s short-termfinancial performance?
Has the company identified what information investors need?
How does the company maintain and enhance its relationship with investors?
How does the company compare with respect to ESG management among its benchmarked peers?
What ESG factors are linked to current and potential regulations?
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
7
21
22
48 DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION OF SUSTAINABILTY REPORTS
Accessibility, Credibility and Usability
How are investors, and potentially other stakeholders,
using the company’s disclosure?
How can the company leverage ESG disclosure to deepen
relationships with investors?
How can the company use their feedback to improve performance?
How has the company effectively engaged investors in the
ESG disclosure process?
What alternative methods does the company need to explore to engage investors?
How does the company use feedback from investors in its
decision-making processes?
How do financial disclosure controls and obligations apply
to the company’s ESG disclosure?
What level(s) of assurance is meaningful and feasible?
What level(s) of assurance do investors expect?
How does the company determine which third party is the
most effective and relevant to assure the company’s disclosure?
8.2 COMMUNICATING THE VALUE OF
SUSTAINABILITY
The value driver model offers companies a simple, direct
approach for assessing and communicating the financial impact of their sustainability strategies.
The objective of the value driver model is to provide key indicators for companies to use to illustrate how their sustainable business strategy contributes to the company's general
performance. The financial and market performance of any
company is the product of a complex array of factors. The
following table shows the possible ways that ESG aspects
can affect the determining factors in companies' financial and
market performance. The model enables firms to construct
their own metrics to describe the connection between their
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
23
24
25
49 DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION OF SUSTAINABILTY REPORTS
top financial objectives (e.g. return on capital or return on
equity) and the following:
▶ Revenue growth from sustainability-advantaged products,
services and/or strategies (S / G).
▶ Total annual cost savings (and cost avoidance) from sustainability-driven productivity initiatives (S / P).
▶ Reduced sustainability-related risk exposure that could
materially impair a company’s performance (S / R).
RETURN ON
EQUITY OR
CAPITAL
GROWTH
New Markets & Geographies
New Customers & Market Share
Product & Services Innovation
Long-term Strategy
Revenue Growth from
Sustainability-Enhanced
or Advantaged Product &
Services
= S/G
PRODUCTIVITY
Operacional Efficiency
Human Capital Management
Reputation Procing Power
Total Cost Saving + Avoidance
from Sustainability-related
Iniciatives
= S/P
RISK MANAGEMENT
Operational & Regulatory Risk
Reputational Risk
Supply Chain Risk
Leadership & Adaptability
Measureable reduction in
Exposure to Sustainabilityrelated Risks to Revenue and
Reputation
= S/R
Source: UN Global Compact and Principles of Responsible Investment (PRI)
FIGURE 1: THE VALUE DRIVER MODEL
50 DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION OF SUSTAINABILTY REPORTS
▶ ISO26000 Guidance on Social Responsibility: ISO26000
is an international guidance standard on social responsibility
for organizations of all types in the public and private sectors,
and includes specific guidance on communication on social
responsibility. The standard was issued in November 2010 after five years of work that included contributions from some
450 experts from 99 countries, plus 200 observers, and 42
regional or global liaison organizations such as the Consumers
International, the International Labor Organization, United
Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD),
the UN Global Compact and the World Health Organization.
8.3 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY STANDARDS
AND PRINCIPLES
The following internationally accepted sustainability standards
have been developed by institutions that promote standards,
best practices and corporate transparency.
▶ AA1000 Stakeholder Engagement Standard: Developed
by AccountAbility, a U.K.-based global organization, AA1000 is
a series of standards designed to help organizations become
more accountable and sustainable. They address priorities,
performance and targets in governance, sustainability assurance, and inclusive stakeholder engagement, among others,
and complement standards such as ISO9001 and ISO14001.
51 DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION OF SUSTAINABILTY REPORTS
▶ OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises19: The
guidelines are far-reaching recommendations addressed by
governments to multinational enterprises operating in or from
adhering countries. They provide voluntary principles and
standards for responsible business conduct in areas such as
employment and industrial relations, human rights, environment, information disclosure, combating bribery, consumer
interests, science and technology, competition, and taxation.
Chapter III covers disclosure and calls on enterprises to be
transparent in their operations and responsive to the public’s
increasingly sophisticated demands for information.
▶ International Labour Organization, Tripartite Declaration of Principles Concerning Multinational Enterprises
and Social Policy: The MNE Declaration provides guidelines
to companies, governments, and employee and labor organizations in such areas as employment, training, conditions of
work and life, and industrial relations. Companies can use these
guidelines to enhance the positive social and labor effects of
their operations.
19. Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD)
52 DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION OF SUSTAINABILTY REPORTS
