Euronext | Guidelines to Issuers for ESG Reporting 1
ESG REPORTING
GUIDELINES TO ISSUERS FOR
ESG REPORTING
Please print this guide only if necessary to prevent waste and to protect the environment.
Available printed copies are made from recycled paper.
4 Euronext | Guidelines to Issuers for ESG Reporting
FOREWORD
01 WHAT IS ESG AND WHO IS THIS GUIDANCE FOR?
02 WHY REPORT ON ESG CONSIDERATIONS?
2.1 | SUPPORTING CORPORATE REPUTATION AND STRATEGY
2.2 | ADDRESSING ESG ISSUES AS KEY COMPONENT OF INVESTOR
RELATIONS
2.2.1 | IDENTIFYING AND UNDERSTANDING INVESTORS’ ESG
INFORMATION NEEDS
2.2.2 | ESG A COMPASS FOR RISK MITIGATION
2.3 | ALIGN YOUR STRATEGY WITH REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS
03 GUIDING PRINCIPLES OF REPORT PREPARATION
3.1 | RESPONSIBILITY AND OVERSIGHT OF THE RECORD
3.2 | RELEVANCE AND MATERIALITY
04
4.2 | IMPLEMENTATION AND OPERATIONAL MANAGEMENT
4.3 | DRAFTING AND PRESENTATION
4.3.1 | QUALITY OF THE INFORMATION
4.3.2 | FORMAT OF THE PRESENTATION
4.3.3 | MAKING YOUR ESG INFORMATION ACCESSIBLE
4.4 | REPORTING AS A CONTINUOUS DIALOGUE
4.5 | ASSESSING & ASSURING
05 USING CAPITAL MARKETS TO IMPLEMENT ESG
BUSINESS STRATEGY
5.1 | THE REGULATORY LANDSCAPE OF GREEN BONDS
5.2 | EQUITY FINANCING FOR YOUR TRANSITION
06 EURONEXT AND ITS ROLE IN SUSTAINABILITY
07 APPENDIX
7.1 | KEY ESG REPORTING REGULATIONS
7.2 | REFERENCES TO EXISTING STANDARDS
7.3 | GUIDANCE FOR ISSUERS IN PREPARING THEIR REPORT
7.4 | OBJECTIVES FOR REPORTING ON ESG
Summary
12
13
14
14
16
17
22
24
24
27
30
32
33
33
34
35
37
37
38
39
39
40
42
43
47
49
51
6
8
18
19
20
ESG REPORTING PROCESS
4.1 | MATERIALITY ANALYSIS: IDENTIFICATION AND
PRIORITISATION
4.1.1 | IDENTIFYING STAKEHOLDERS AND MAPPING THEIR
INTERESTS
4.1.2 | IDENTIFYING THE RELEVANT THEMES FOR THE COMPANY
(MATERIALITY)
4.1.3 | PRIORITISATION
6 Euronext | Guidelines to Issuers for ESG Reporting Euronext | Guidelines to Issuers for ESG Reporting 7
The world is facing significant challenges in ensuring a sustainable
future for our people and our planet and many international and
international initiatives are addressing them. Acting on increasing
concerns worldwide, 195 countries signed the Paris agreement
in December 2015 to limit the rise in global temperatures to less
than 2°C above pre-industrial levels. The European Green Deal is
the first step on this journey, a roadmap that aims to transform the
EU’s economy for a sustainable future, including the decoupling of
economic growth from resource use.
As governments and individuals scale up their efforts and support
initiatives to remodel our economies and change our behaviours,
every organisation will have its own role to play in the transition to
a sustainable society. The financial industry will necessarily be an
important contributor to the global sustainability agenda. To promote
sustainable finance, the industry should incorporate environmental,
social and governance (ESG) factors into investment decisionmaking,
supporting the allocation and channelling of capital towards
sustainable and transitioning assets.
Leveraging practices and techniques that have been created and
enriched over the past 30 years, the financial industry began to
incorporate non-financial criteria in the analysis of companies’
performances only a decade ago. This was a first move towards
embracing sustainability, but progress requires steep learning curves.
To satisfy investors’ expectations of transparency and their increasing
awareness of ESG factors, public companies are being incentivised to
disclose more information as the stakes become higher.
This growth trajectory is demonstrated in recent figures: the Global
Sustainable Investment Alliance estimates that in 2018 the total value
of all investments managed following an ESG mandate was USD $31
trillion globally. Europe accounts for the largest concentration of
sustainable investment assets worldwide, totalling USD $14.1 trillion.
As the demand for socially responsible assets grows, ESG reporting
is both a fantastic opportunity and a real challenge. It can appear
particularly complex for smaller issuers in the absence of a clear set
of globally used standards. This ESG guidance has been created to
help Euronext listed companies in their interactions with investors
and the wider ESG community, to help them understand how to
address ESG issues as a key component of investor relations, as well
as the main principles to consider when preparing an ESG report.
As sustainability evolves alongside the needs of our society and our
environment, this guidance will be updated as necessary to continue
to be a dynamic support, aligned with the needs of investors.
This guidance underlines our commitment to support our customers
and promote sustainable finance. We are an official supporter of
the United Nations’ Sustainable Stock Exchanges (SSE) initiative, a
member of Finance for Tomorrow (the sustainable initiative from Paris
Europlace) and have committed to the Task Force on Climate-related
Financial Disclosure (TCFD) recommendations. We strive to promote
transparency on climate risks and opportunities in the financial
markets and are building a growing offering specifically designed
to assist issuers in enjoying more visibility as a benefit of their ESG
commitment.
They say the future of finance is green. It starts with each of us making
our own strides forward in our pledge to create a sustainable future.
We hope this guidance will inspire your journey toward a more
sustainable economy.
Anthony Attia and Daryl Byrne,
Members of the Euronext Managing Board
Foreword
Anthony Attia
Daryl Byrne
8 Euronext | Guidelines to Issuers for ESG Reporting Euronext | Guidelines to Issuers for ESG Reporting 9
Environmental, social and governance principles (ESG) are a set of standards
by which a company and its investors can measure the wider impact of its
operations and long-term strategy. Companies can integrate environmental1 ,
social2 and governance3 concerns into their long-term strategy with a view to:
Moreover, investors increasingly expect companies to recognise and address,
in a responsible way, short- and long-term risks and opportunities in relation
to environmental, social and governance factors that impact long-term value
creation.
For the purpose of this guidance the terms “ESG” and “Sustainability” are
therefore used interchangeably, herein encompassing concepts comparable to
“corporate responsibility” and “CSR”.
making an overall positive
contribution
achieving sustainable
growth
avoiding and addressing
adverse impacts related to
its operations, products or
services
What is ESG and who is
this guidance for?
01 1 Environmental: related to topics that include pollution, carbon emissions and protection of biodiversity.
2 Social: related to topics that include inequalities issues, diversity and human rights.
3 Governance: related to topics that include management processes and transparency
“Sustainability” has evolved to refer to
strategic and operational considerations
related to a broad set of environmental,
social and governance concerns.
10 Euronext | Guidelines to Issuers for ESG Reporting Euronext | Guidelines to Issuers for ESG Reporting 11
This guidance is intended to help simplify the efforts of companies listed on
Euronext to:
■ Identify and prioritise the opportunities and risks of greatest
significance to a company results and their most important stakeholders
with regards to ESG
■ Report efficiently on their management of and performance in areas of
ESG risks defined in accordance with their own needs and those of their
stakeholders
■ Navigate, comply with or stay ahead of regulations that require
disclosure of financially material ESG information
■ Differentiate themselves on ESG matters and maintain high relevance,
which is becoming a competitive imperative
The use of the Euronext guidance on ESG reporting is voluntary for
companies. Companies that apply the guidance may highlight this by including
the following statement in their annual report and/or their separate ESG
report: “We follow the Euronext guidance on ESG reporting of January 2020”.
12 Euronext | Guidelines to Issuers for ESG Reporting Euronext | Guidelines to Issuers for ESG Reporting 13
The evidence suggests that strong corporate performance on ESG factors
correlates positively with improved cost of capital and financial performance.
Several studies4 suggest that companies that perform well on material ESG
factors significantly outperform peers with poor performance on these issues.
In addition to investors, a range of other stakeholders increasingly require
information regarding the most significant opportunities and risks to
which companies are exposed, and how they manage such issues. Many
of the issues covered by the concept of “corporate responsibility” can have
significant consequences for a company’s financial performance and value
creation over both the short and the long term, as they can affect a company’s
access to and cost of capital, market access, brand value, licences and other
authorisations required to operate.
Reporting on how sustainability initiatives are linked to strategy, financial
performance and valuation assists in communicating how a company is
addressing some of the world’s most pressing challenges, including poverty,
education, climate change and biodiversity. Addressing these challenges
promotes more prosperous economic systems that benefit all participants and
create more stable and resilient markets within which companies can operate.
2.1 | Supporting corporate reputation and
strategy
In addition to the benefits of the report itself, a company also derives value
from the process of creating a report.
While high quality corporate reporting provides useful decision-making
information for internal and external stakeholders, the process of compiling
this information can also strengthen internal reporting systems. The
ESG reporting process itself can help companies develop the internal
infrastructure needed to link strategic goals with the business model,
risks, opportunities, operational indicators and financial performance. ESG
reporting thus equips a company with tools to identify and manage risk,
evaluate and measure success, as well as identify future challenges and
opportunities.
An extensive number of
empirical business studies make
the case for companies to fully
integrate sustainability into their
business strategy.
Why report on ESG
considerations?
02 4 Gunnar Friede, Timo Busch & Alexander Bassen (2015) ‘ESG and financial performance: aggregated evidence from more than 2000 empirical studies’, Journal of Sustainable Finance & Investment.
Gordon L. Clark, Andreas Feiner, Michael Viehs (2015) ‘From the stockholder to the stakeholder: How sustainability can drive financial outperformance’, co-authored by the Smith School of Enterprise and the
Environment at the University of Oxford and Arabesque Asset Management.
14 Euronext | Guidelines to Issuers for ESG Reporting Euronext | Guidelines to Issuers for ESG Reporting 15
2.2 | Addressing ESG issues as key
component of investor relations
A large and growing proportion of assets managed globally sits with asset
managers and asset owners that have incorporated or are incorporating ESG
considerations into their investment processes.
In 2019, the United Nations-supported Principles for Responsible Investment
(PRI)5 had nearly 2,500 signatories with USD 89 trillion in assets under
management (AUM), up from 800 signatories with USD 22 trillion AUM in
2010. For these investors, ESG information provides insight into the quality of
corporate management and helps investors forecast company performance
by providing a more comprehensive view of the company. Effective analysis of
relevant ESG factors has become a fundamental part of assessing the value
of an investment for many investors. For these reasons, investors are asking
companies to communicate on how they are managing ESG-related risks and
opportunities
2.2.1 | Identifying and understanding investors’ ESG information
needs
While all investors can benefit from ESG information, different investors may
have distinct information needs. Companies can therefore benefit from asking
themselves the following questions:
For instance, investors with a long-term investment horizon, such as pension
funds, may be particularly interested in information regarding risks, such
as how climate change may affect the company in the medium or long term.
Other investors may only be interested in information that is disclosed within
a financial or integrated report, while others may want supplemental, detailed
sustainability information in a standalone report. These considerations are
important early in the reporting process, as they will help define the content,
scope and format of reporting, as well as engagement with investors.
Investors are interested in how a company communicates with other
key stakeholders (e.g., employees, consumers, suppliers, civil society or
governments), which can have a material impact on company operations.
Investors recognise that a company’s ability to create value in the long term
depends on its interactions with its stakeholders and use of resources.
While this guidance focuses on
facilitating transparency between
investors and issuers, investor
information needs go beyond the
investor-issuer relationship.
Who are the company’s
top investors?
What kind of
investors would
the company like to
have?
How has the company
engaged with
relevant investors
to understand their
concerns?
5 www.unpri.org/pri/about-the-pri
16 Euronext | Guidelines to Issuers for ESG Reporting Euronext | Guidelines to Issuers for ESG Reporting 17
2.2.2 | ESG a compass for risk mitigation
The transition to a low carbon economy implies changes in climate policies
and an increased focus on physical risks, which will prompt a reassessment of
the values of almost every financial asset. Companies that seek to minimise
their ESG risks must look at their ambitions and their desired longevity
through the lens of environmental, social and governance factors.
As ESG outcomes become embedded in a company’s strategy, the way
risks are understood, measured, and subsequently mitigated will evolve in
alignment with strategic objectives. Ongoing dialogue with stakeholders
(including employees, communities, shareholders, relevant regulators, rating
agencies, clients, etc.) is key in helping companies understand where they
should focus their attention when it comes to ESG risk-related areas.
Many components of a company’s strategy may be understood from an ESG
perspective.
We can take as an example the ambition to promote employee well-being
and happiness. This is mirrored by the operational risk of high employee
turnover, which can impact the continuity of client servicing and operational
efficiency. However, the risk of high employee turnover may also have a
strategic component with impacts on attracting talent, corporate culture
and client perception. The increased awareness gained from taking both
operational risks and strategic objectives into account can help companies
allocate resources more efficiently, thereby integrating the ESG risk into their
Enterprise Management Risk Framework. Strenghtened employer branding
is an illustration of how ESG can help bring concrete answers to companies’
needs today.
The understanding and clear disclosure of ESG risks and the strategies
employed to mitigate these risks assure investors of a company’s resilience
and capacity to transition towards a more sustainable economy.
Finally, a company may leave itself open to reputational risk if it overlooks this
area, necessarily not because of poor ESG risk management per se, but even
due to poor disclosure and communication.
2.3 | Align your strategy with regulatory
requirements
A number of jurisdictions have introduced regulatory requirements governing
corporate disclosure of ESG information.
Shareholders and other stakeholders are demonstrating an increasing
interest in non-financial information, which allows them to build a more
comprehensive understanding of a company’s development, performance,
position and impact. As demand for socially responsible investing grows, they
factor ESG information thoroughly into their investment decision process. In
this context, disclosing non-financial information is pivotal for both investors
and consumers.
The European Parliament has acknowledged the importance of this
transparency, and the European Directive 2014/95/UE dated 22 October 2014
obliges public-interest entities which are large undertakings with more than
500 employees to publish non-financial information, including information
on environmental, social and employee matters, diversity, respect for human
rights and on anti-corruption and bribery matters. Additional regulatory
frameworks at the EU level include the Guidelines on Non-Financial Reporting
(2017/C215/01), updated in 2019 to factor in climate-related information
(2019/C209/01).
A description of the key ESG reporting regulations in Euronext Exchange
jurisdictions at date of publication can be found in section 7.1. of the Appendix
to this guide. These regulations are valid as of 19 September 2019.
18 Euronext | Guidelines to Issuers for ESG Reporting Euronext | Guidelines to Issuers for ESG Reporting 19
3.1 | Responsibility and oversight of the
report
The initial stages of report preparation provide an opportunity to determine
who within the company is best placed to be involved in creating the report.
Identifying responsibilities
As a practical first measure, it is useful to determine within the company the
roles, responsibilities and capabilities that are relevant for ESG reporting,
including identifying appropriate personnel and coordinating among them.
Different departments (such as finance, investor relations, communications,
HR, legal, sustainability and each business unit) make valuable contributions
to the outcome of a report. Any team working on ESG reporting should
have access to input from across the functional divisions of the company,
as different functions within the company may be engaging with different
stakeholders and managing material issues.
Role of the Board of Directors
The Board of directors plays an essential role. Integrating ESG considerations
into the company’s strategy is an important aspect of the Board’s role, since it
is responsible for the strategic oversight. It is thus worthwhile for companies
to define their ESG rationales and objectives with their Boards of directors,
and provide governance mechanisms for addressing these factors at all levels
of the organisation.
By embedding sustainability into their core duties, directors can position
themselves to ensure that ESG factors are integrated into mainstream
business strategy, organisational culture, values and operational practices in
a way that supports the long-term profitability and viability of the company.
Boards may find it beneficial to issue a statement that clarifies how the board
determined:
Which ESG factors were selected
and how
Within what timeframe it made these
judgments, as they change over time
The Board statement should be published in the ESG Report.
If the process of drafting and filing the ESG report is directed by the
management, the ultimate responsibility for the timely issuance and the
content of the report falls on the directors’ shoulders.
Guiding principles of
report preparation
03
The importance of different
stakeholders
20 Euronext | Guidelines to Issuers for ESG Reporting Euronext | Guidelines to Issuers for ESG Reporting 21
3.2 | Relevance And Materiality
While companies have several reporting objectives, the materiality of
information and its relevance for investors is a key consideration in
determining the scope and content of company’s reporting.
Identifying relevant issues is a starting point for identifying material factors.
Information is “relevant” when it influences the opinion or decision of users
by helping them to evaluate past, present or future events, or by confirming
or correcting their past evaluations. As such, understanding the reporting
audience is critical to determining what information should be included in
a report. When determining relevant matters, it can be useful to gauge how
much an issue might potentially affect the company’s ability to create value
over time.
22 Euronext | Guidelines to Issuers for ESG Reporting Euronext | Guidelines to Issuers for ESG Reporting 23 ESG
Reporting process
04
The reporting process set out below is based
on the Global Reporting Initiative’s standards
for ESG reporting (GRI Standards)6. Other
guidelines also exist and can be relevant for
issuers (see appendix).
The process of carrying out a materiality analysis and the associated
operational management, communication and annual updates, will to a large
extent be the same across sectors and companies, comprising four key steps:
6 https://www.globalreporting.org/Pages/default.aspx
1 | MATERIALITY ANALYSIS 2| OPERATIONAL MANAGEMENT 3| COMMUNICATION
24 Euronext | Guidelines to Issuers for ESG Reporting Euronext | Guidelines to Issuers for ESG Reporting 25
4.1 | Materiality analysis: identification and
prioritisation
4.1.1 | Identifying stakeholders and mapping their interests
The ESG reporting process should start with a materiality analysis, which
involves mapping the opportunities and risks the company faces, as well
as identifying its most important stakeholders and their primary areas of
interest. This will give the company a good starting point for identifying its
most business-critical areas, and will provide direction regarding the relevant
indicators which should be monitored.
The work undertaken to map a company’s
most important stakeholders and their
expectations can be based on existing
analysis and knowledge from within the
organisation.
This information can be gathered through discussions with internal employees
who are in contact with key stakeholders. Which employees to involve will
depend on the key stakeholders identified:
■ If customers are key stakeholders, the sales department is a key source
of input, based on sales staff’s existing analysis and knowledge of
customer requirements and expectations.
■ For information on civil society, the head of the company’s local business
unit or its communications department might have, for example, an
overview of enquiries received from interest groups and civil society, as
well as any associated media reporting.
■ If internal discussions reveal that information about the expectations
of some groups of stakeholders is lacking or that such information is
incomplete, the stakeholders themselves should be contacted.
26 Euronext | Guidelines to Issuers for ESG Reporting Euronext | Guidelines to Issuers for ESG Reporting 27
The following is an example of what an overview of stakeholder expectations
might look like:
Stakeholder group Expected of the company Arena for dialogue Actions by the company
Investors Climate reporting
Compliance with the OECD’s Guidelines
for Multinational Enterprises
Meetings with investors and analysts
Quarterly presentations
Report greenhouse gas emissions and
emission reduction targets
Human rights due diligence
Customers Corruption prevention
Product safety
Customer meetings, seminars,
internet-based channels
Formulate ethical guidelines
Customer satisfaction surveys
Participation in industry forums
Neighbours Create jobs
Minimise negative impact in the form of
traffic, noise and/or emissions
Meetings for local residents
Neighbourhood consultation meetings
Open days
Employ local people
Analyse traffic patterns and implement measures
to reduce noise and dangerous situations
Employees Secure jobs
Good working environment
Collaboration with unions
Company-wide meetings
Departmental meetings
Provide information on business strategy and
profitability
Employee satisfaction surveys
4.1.2 | Identifying the relevant themes for the company (Materiality)
In financial reporting, “materiality” is usually defined by reference to a
threshold value that may influence the financial decisions of users of the
company’s accounts, for example, investors. In corporate responsibility
reporting, a materiality assessment takes into account a broader range of
stakeholders and the impact of the company. In this context, the principle of
materiality includes considering both the effect a topic has on stakeholders’
assessments and decisions, and the significance of a relevant topic for
environmental, social and economic matters.
■ Even if a topic is not regarded as material to the company’s financial
results, it may nonetheless be important to include in the company’s
reporting. An example is the use of suppliers in low-cost countries. This
can have a positive impact on the society and economy of the country
concerned (and can generate better financial results for the reporting
company). However, it can at the same time pose a risk in terms of
workers’ basic rights.
■ Whether a company reports on a smaller number of only the most
material themes or a more comprehensive range, an effective report
covers ESG considerations that are relevant to business strategy and
illustrates the link to both long-term and, when possible, short-term
value creation.
■ Thinking through each piece of a company’s value chain can help
develop a comprehensive understanding of the ESG themes that could
be relevant for disclosure. Additionally, it is often helpful to reflect on
the risks discussed in the company’s annual management reports, as
well as themes reported by peers.
28 Euronext | Guidelines to Issuers for ESG Reporting Euronext | Guidelines to Issuers for ESG Reporting 29
The process of mapping topics of relevance to the company should include the
opinions of an internal interdisciplinary group and will also often involve the
company’s executive management. Salient considerations may include:
■ What is important in order to create shareholder value?
■ What does the board of directors consider to be important?
■ What are the difficult items on the executive management team’s
agenda?
■ Do the board and executive management have sufficient knowledge of
corporate responsibility?
Companies are invited to look to GRI 1017 for help in assessing materiality.
The EU Commission emphasises that companies, when assessing the
materiality of non-financial information, should consider the double
materiality perspective: financial materiality, i.e. information relating to
“non-financial” factors that may nevertheless affect company value, and
environmental and social materiality, that is, the company’s impact on
environmental and social factors. As shown on this illustration, the distinction
between these two types of materiality can be difficult to identify in practice.
Also, the degree to which report readers emphasise one type of materiality
over the other is likely to vary among stakeholders.
7 www.globalreporting.org/standards/gri-standards-download-center/gri-101-foundation-containing-standard-interpretation-1/
Refer to GRI 102-46 for additional illustration.
30 Euronext | Guidelines to Issuers for ESG Reporting Euronext | Guidelines to Issuers for ESG Reporting 31
4.1.3. Prioritisation
The results of the materiality analysis must be compiled in an appropriate
manner that demonstrates what is significant both to the company and
its stakeholders. In order to determine the company’s material risks and
opportunities, the different topics identified should be assessed along two
dimensions: “Significance to the company’s stakeholders” and “Significance
for the company’s economic, social and environmental impacts”.
Tips for assessing the two dimensions of risks and opportunities:
Significance to the company’s stakeholders
■ To what extent does the topic affect stakeholders economically, socially or
environmentally?
■ To what extent might the topic influence stakeholders’ decisions and their
assessments of the company’s products, services or reputation?
Significance for the company’s economic, social and environmental impacts:
■ To what extent is the topic relevant for the company’s economic, social and
environmental impacts? This can be important for the company’s ability to
achieve its strategic and business goals.
■ To what extent does the topic affect the company’s ability to operate over the
short and the long term?
■ Which international standards and agreements is the company expected to
comply with?
The risks and opportunities that are assessed to be significant to both
the company’s stakeholders and the company’s economic, social and
environmental impacts should be defined as material, and thus prioritised in
the company’s work and reporting on corporate responsibility. The findings in
terms of material risks and opportunities should form part of the company’s
public reporting. The information can be presented in many ways, and
companies should choose the most appropriate method for them.
The following is an example of how to present a materiality analysis:
The risks and opportunities contained in the circle as shown are the most
important ones for the company to report on. There are alternative ways
of presenting the results of a materiality analysis, such as a matrix (as
demonstrated above), a table, or a list.
32 Euronext | Guidelines to Issuers for ESG Reporting Euronext | Guidelines to Issuers for ESG Reporting 33
4.2 | Implementation and operational
management
Material risks and opportunities are assumed to be significant to companies’
profitability over the long term, and should therefore be managed accordingly.
Furthermore, ESG reporting should reflect what the company actually does to
address ESG concerns.
This means that companies should:
■ Include material risks and opportunities in operational management
The topics that the company has defined as most significant to report
on should be included in the company’s risk management, business
development and strategy processes. This should be described at a high
level in the ESG report or chapter. The ESG report or chapter should also
include a description of implemented measures in order to reduce the
risks associated with the most material topics, and how these measures
are integrated into the operational management of the company,
including its business development and strategy.
■ Define targets and indicators for material topics
Once a company has established which ESG themes to report on, it
should define specific targets and performance indicators for material
topics and disclose these in order to demonstrate progress. Companies
should explain why the targets and indicators are relevant to the
company and how they are monitored. The indicators may be generic,
industry-specific (e.g. certain Health Safety Evironment indicators) or
company-specific. Relevant indicators will depend on the company’s
industry and geographic exposure. Companies are recommended to
use widely accepted indicators developed via a credible national or
international process. The indicators can be both quantitative and
qualitative. Examples of widely used indicators can be gathered from
SASB or GRI, among other frameworks (see appendix).
■ Opt for robust internal ESG data collection and management processes
Better data leads to better decision-making and performance. Rather
than creating completely new channels, companies can make use of
existing internal audit, risk and data control verification systems. If
internal systems are not currently sufficient for the task, a company may
decide it is in its long-term best interest to invest in building capacity in
this area. If data collection gaps are identified, companies can identify
and explain them in their report.
4.3 | Drafting and presentation
4.3.1 | Quality of the information
Reporting should be transparent and should enable the reader to track
performance from year to year.
The report should describe how the information has been defined, gathered
and compiled. To show the company’s performance, comparable quantitative
information should be provided for the previous three financial years where
appropriate.
When reporting specific targets and performance indicators for material
topics, investors appreciate information that appears in the appropriate
context, including comparisons to:
■ Historical company and industry trends
■ Related corporate goals
■ Relevant ratios
■ Industry averages
■ Financial results/performance
Where a target has been set for an indicator, information should be provided
on whether the target has been achieved. If the target has not been achieved,
a brief explanation should be given. It may be appropriate to structure the
content and format of the report in a manner that makes the information
comparable from year to year. This also makes it easier for stakeholders
to locate information and may help enhance the perceived quality of the
company’s reporting.
34 Euronext | Guidelines to Issuers for ESG Reporting Euronext | Guidelines to Issuers for ESG Reporting 35
The reported information must be:
ACCURATE
The reported information should be accurate enough to enable the
company’s stakeholders to evaluate the results of the company’s activities.
BALANCED
The report should describe both the positive and negative impacts of the
company’s activities.
COMPREHENSIBLE
The information should be clear to the report’s users. It can be useful, for
example, to describe the company’s value chain in order to show where the
company has the greatest impact on the environment.
COMPARABLE
The information should be presented in a manner that enables
stakeholders to evaluate the company’s performance over time and to
compare it with that of other organisations where relevant.
TIMELY
Reporting should at a minimum follow the same timetable as for annual
financial reporting.
RELIABLE
The reported information should be gathered, recorded and compiled in a
way that can be verified.
Companies are also invited to consult the GRI 101 Foundation and, in
particular, the Reporting Principles, which define report quality choices.
Information quality is important to enable stakeholders to make sound and
reasonable assessments of an organisation, and to take appropriate actions.
As investors seek to understand how ESG information is linked to the
company’s business strategy and financial performance, relevant quantitative
data is in high demand because it can be more easily compared across time
within the same company or with similar data from other companies. Such
data is also useful for enhancing investment valuation and credit rating
models.
5.3.2 | Format of the presentation
The report should be included in the board of directors’ annual report,
elsewhere in the company’s annual report8, in an integrated report , in a
separate report or through other channels that stakeholders wish to use as
a source of information. Regardless of the reporting channel chosen, the
format of the report must satisfy all relevant legal requirements and be easily
available via the company’s website.
Regardless of the format, there are a few overarching points of best practice
to keep in mind:
■ Reporting period
If sustainability disclosure is separate from financial disclosure, it is
recommended that the two types of disclosure are published for the
same reporting period. This will allow investors to consider financial
information within the context of ESG information. Cross-references
within these documents ensure connectivity and accessibility of
information.
■ Consistency across channels
It is important to ensure consistency among the information reported
in different communication channels. For example, if one channel
emphasises the critical nature of an issue to a company’s business,
the company should avoid omitting discussion of that issue on another
communication channel.
■ Accessibility of information
Information must be easy to find. For example, companies can produce
an online content index with hyperlinks to boost digital accessibility
indicating where all existing ESG information can be found.
■ XBRL reporting language
As in financial reporting, it can be helpful to use XBRL, a digital
reporting language for reporting corporate information that structures
data consistently to improve its analysis. XBRL taxonomies are available
from CDSB, CDP and GRI.
■ Clear and relevant presentation
Reporting is most effective when the language used and the way the
information is presented is clear and relevant for investors and is
clearly linked to a company’s ability to create value in the short, medium
and long term.
4.3.3 | Making your ESG information accessible
The right disclosure channels ensure investors receive relevant, easily
accessible, comparable and timely information.
To accommodate variable information needs and interests, it may be relevant
to use different communication channels, including:
■ Websites
■ Regulatory filings
■ Annual reports
■ Sustainability reports
■ Other company reports
8 This model has been promoted by the International Integrated Reporting Council (IRRC) – See: https://integratedreporting.org/.
36 Euronext | Guidelines to Issuers for ESG Reporting Euronext | Guidelines to Issuers for ESG Reporting 37
4.4 | Reporting as a continuous dialogue
Engaging stakeholders on ESG factors is best conducted as a pre-emptive
rather than reactive activity, as stakeholders can help a company identify,
mitigate, and manage ESG risks and opportunities before problems
emerge. Stakeholder engagement can also be a source of innovation, future
opportunities and new partnerships that fuel strategic growth.
Disclosing a company’s engagement process can help investors understand
if and how well a company is integrating ESG risks and opportunities into
planning and operations, as well as lending credibility to company claims
about leadership in ESG performance. Systematic stakeholder engagement
enhances receptivity and the usefulness of corporate ESG information.
Executed properly, stakeholder engagement is:
■ Result in improved understanding by the company of its strategic
partners and resources
■ Strengthen relationships with stakeholders
■ Foster higher levels of trust among external parties regarding the
company’s actions and reporting
4.5 | Assessing and assuring
ESG reports are made more credible by strong internal assessment processes
and/or external assurance, if resources permit.
An internal audit committee or group of individuals, independent of the
division tasked with measuring and gathering the information, can review
disclosure. An internal audit can also further ensure that internal data
collection systems are robust and organised.
A clear and visible statement should be made in the event of external
verification of the report.
Using more than one communication channel can be an effective way to
ensure that the whole of a company’s target audience receives the necessary
information.
To make the information more accessible to international investors,
companies may also wish to disseminate their ESG information in a language
widely spoken globally in addition to a national language.
The channels for ESG disclosure also depend on a company’s regulatory
context and business and communication strategy. Securities regulations
or listing rules may require a company to integrate financially material
ESG information into its financial disclosures and other mandatory investor
communications and regulatory filings. Similarly, based on its own analysis of
information needs and expectations, a company may decide to include certain
types of ESG information in its financial disclosure, even if not required.
38 Euronext | Guidelines to Issuers for ESG Reporting Euronext | Guidelines to Issuers for ESG Reporting 39 Using capital markets
to implement ESG
business strategy
05
5.1 | The regulatory landscape of Green
Bonds
In March 2018, the European Commission (EC) published its Action Plan on
Financing Sustainable Growth. One of the actions within this Plan details the
EC’s commitment to the creation of standards and labels for green financial
products.
A Technical Expert Group (TEG) was established to assist in four key areas,
one of which is the creation of an EU Green Bond Standard (EU GBS), a
voluntary, non-legislative standard proposed to issuers who wish to align their
issuances with best market practices.
The intention is to provide a framework of core components for EU Green
Bonds, enhancing transparency, integrity, consistency and comparability. In
summary, the TEG purports that a voluntary EU Green Bond Standard, aimed
at both European and international issuers of all forms of listed/unlisted
fixed income products, will address barriers to market development and will
support its role in channelling substantial financial flows to green bonds.
Built on best market practices, the EU Green Bond
Standard goes a step further than many other
industry standards with its proposed ‘external verifier
accreditation programme’ standing out as the most
significant departure from current market practice.
While it remains to be seen if an EU-supported Green Bond Standard can
effectively tackle the current market barriers that it hopes to address and
provide benefits to both issuers and investors of green products without
imposing too onerous an additional cost, Euronext welcomes the proposal and
supports the objective of creating a recognised EU Green Bond Standard in
Europe.
The new EURONEXT GREEN Bond Offering encourages issuers to finance
their transition to a sustainable economy and provides them with the visibility
required among responsible investors while the latter benefit from easier
access to sustainable assets.
5.2 | Equity financing for your transition
Analysing the relationships between financing sources and carbon emissions,
a September 2019 working paper supported by the European Central Bank
(ECB) concludes that for given levels of economic and financial development
and environmental regulation, CO² emissions per capita are lower in
economies that are relatively more equity-funded. Stock markets can
encourage the reallocation of investments towards less polluting sectors.
They can also help push carbon-intensive sectors to develop and implement
greener technologies.
Current environmental objectives are strengthening the case for a Capital
Market Union in Europe to deliver sustainable, equity-based growth. In this
context, Euronext encourages issuers to leverage equity capital to finance
their transition to a sustainable economy and is working to simplify issuers’
access to sustainable equity capital.
Sustainable indices also contribute to this goal, as they amplify issuers’
visibility among the relevant communities of investors.
40 | Guidelines to Issuers for ESG Reporting Euronext | Guidelines to Issuers for ESG Reporting 41 Euronext and its role in
sustainability
06
Pan-European exchange group Euronext offers a diverse range of products
and services and combines fair, orderly, transparent and efficient equity, fixed
income securities and derivatives markets in different European locations.
Euronext’s businesses comprise listing, cash trading, derivatives trading,
advanced data services, post-trade and technologies and other corporate
services.
Euronext has a special position in the financial ecosystem. It serves the real
economy by bringing together buyers and sellers in high integrity trading
venues that are transparent, efficient and reliable. In this key role Euronext
has a responsibility to the whole finance community to contribute to the
financial stability and the sustainable agenda in the countries in which it
operates.
Euronext’s collaboration with and contributions to the UN’s Sustainable Stock
Exchange Initiative confirms its commitment to building a new kind of finance,
shifting paradigms to support a new world view. The Euronext ESG mission is
to finance local and global real economy in its transition towards a sustainable
society by:
■ Driving investment in innovative, sustainable products and services
through secure and transparent markets, in continuous collaboration
with the financial community
■ Inspiring and promoting tangible sustainable practices within the
company and towards our communities, by respecting and developing
our people and by supporting our ecosystem.
42 Euronext | Guidelines to Issuers for ESG Reporting Euronext | Guidelines to Issuers for ESG Reporting 43 Appendix
07
7.1 | Key ESG reporting regulations of 19 September 2019
Issuer of the text Date Title Comments
EU EU institutions 2014 EU Non-Financial Reporting
Directive 95/14
Applies from January 2017 to all
listed companies with more than 500 employees, and
mandates disclosure of environmental, social (including
diversity and human rights) and anti-corruption issues.
Transposed in all the Euronext countries (except
Norway)
Belgium Government
Corporate governance committee
2017
2019
Law dated 3rd of September
2017 transposing the EU Non-
Financial Reporting Directive
95/14 into Belgian law
2020 Belgian corporate”
governance code
The 2020 Belgian Code on Corporate Governance (‘2020
Code’) applies to companies incorporated in Belgium
whose shares are admitted to trading on a regulated
market (‘listed companies’) as defined by the Code on
Companies and Associations
France Government
Company association
2017
2018
Ordinance 2017-1180 of 19 July
2017 on publication of nonfinancial
information by certain
large companies and company
groups
AFEP-MEDEF or Middlenext
corporate governance codes
44 Euronext | Guidelines to Issuers for ESG Reporting Euronext | Guidelines to Issuers for ESG Reporting 45
Issuer of the text Date Title Comments
Ireland Government
Government
Financial Reporting Council, UK
&
Euronext Dublin as Competent
Authority for Listing
2017
2017
2016
S.I. No. 360 of 2017 (as
amended by S.I. No. 410 of 2018)
implementing the EU Non-
Financial Reporting Directive
2014/95/EU.
Section 1373 Irish Companies Act
(as amended)
UK Corporate Governance
Code 2016 & Irish Corporate
Governance Annex
Applicable for financial years commencing on or after
1 August 2017. Large companies (as defined in Irish
Companies Act), groups and undertakings are required
to disclose and publish the required non-financial
information, each financial year.
Large traded companies are required to disclose in their
Corporate Governance Statement information on diversity
in their board.
At present the UK Corporate Governance Code (2016)
and the Irish Corporate Governance Annex applies to all
companies with a primary listing on the regulated market
of Euronext Dublin. The Code and the Irish Annex set out
standards of good practice in relation to board leadership
and effectiveness, remuneration, accountability and
relations with shareholders, based on a comply or explain
basis. A new 2018 UK Corporate Governance Code has
been introduced in the UK and applies to financial years
beginning on or after 1 January 2019. It is planned that
this will also be adopted for Irish companies with a
primary listing on Euronext Dublin.
The Netherlands Monitoring Commissie Corporate
Governance Code
Government
2016
2016
Dutch Corporate Governance Code
2016
Decree dated 22 December 2016
transposing EU Non-Financial
Reporting Directive 95/14 into
Dutch law with respect to diversity
policy
The Dutch Corporate Governance Code 2016 applies
to all companies whose registered offices are in the
Netherlands and whose shares, or depositary receipts
for shares, have been admitted to trading on a regulated
market, and to large companies (balance sheet value
> €500 million) whose shares, or depositary receipts
for shares, have been admitted to trading on a MTF or a
comparable system.
Issuer of the text Date Title Comments
Government 2017 Decree dated 14 March 2017
transposing EU Non-Financial
Reporting Directive 95/14 into
Dutch law with respect to nonfinancial
information
Portugal Government 2017 Decree-Law n.º 89/2017 of 28 July
transposing the EU Non-Financial
Reporting Directive 95/14
Large companies and parent companies of a big group
of companies which have the legal status of entities of
public interest and that have an average of more than 500
employees, must present annually a non-public statement
included in the management report or presented in a
separate report prepared by its supervisory bodies,
containing enough non-financial information for an
understanding of the evolution, performance, position and
impact of their activities, at least (i) on environmental,
social and workers issues, (ii) on the equality between
women and men (iii) on non-discrimination, respect for
human rights, respect for combat corruption and bribery
attempts.
The law foresees which entities are qualified as entities of
public interest, namely issuers of securities admitted to
trading on a regulated market.
Issuers of shares admitted to trading on a regulated
market of a Member State of the European Union that are
large companies, must, in addition, provide a description
of the diversity policy that applies to members of their
management and supervisory bodies and particularly
in terms of age, sex, qualifications and professional
background.
46 Euronext | Guidelines to Issuers for ESG Reporting Euronext | Guidelines to Issuers for ESG Reporting 47
Issuer of the text Date Title Comments
Norway Government
Oslo Børs
Norwegian Corporate Governance
Board
Last
updated
2018
Last
updated
2018
Last
updated
2019
Accounting Act, Section 3-3 a-d
Continuing obligations of stock
exchange listed companies,
Section 7
Norwegian Code of Practice for
Corporate Governance
Applies to listed companies, including non-Norwegian
companies for which Norway is the home state. Some of
the provisions also apply for companies with listed bonds
only.
Applies to companies that are listed or have applied for
listing on Oslo Børs or Oslo Axess
Applies to listed companies on regulated markets
in Norway, and to savings banks with listed equity
certificates to the extent that it is appropriate
United Kingdom FRC
UK Government
UK Government
Last
updated
2016
2015
Last
updated
2013
UK Corporate Governance Code
Modern Slavery Act Government
Changes to the Companies Act
2006 (Strategic Report and
Director’s Report) 2013
The code sets out standards of good practice in relation
to board leadership and effectiveness, remuneration,
accountability and relations with shareholders, on a
comply-or-explain basis.
Section 54 of the Modern Slavery Act 2015 requires certain
organisations to develop a slavery and human trafficking
statement each year.
Carbon emissions, human rights and diversity reporting
required by all listed companies in the Director’s Report
7.2 | References to existing standards
Below issuers may find a non-exhaustive list of existing ESG reporting
standards that may be of relevance in furthering their transparency and
disclosure with regards to non-financial information.
■ IIRC/Integrated Reporting
An international initiative with a framework and principles designed
to promote more integrated reporting that describes how a company’s
value creation is affected by its external operating framework, risk,
strategy, operational management, etc.9
■ Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD)
Recommendations on climate reporting developed by the TCFD for the
Financial Stability Board.10
■ The OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises.11
■ The Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB)
An American reporting standard that may be useful for companies that
report in accordance with Form 20-F.12
■ Transparency International’s Business Principles for Countering Bribery
A framework for developing and comparing anti-corruption
programmes.13
■ The UN Global Compact
General reporting (progress reports) in accordance with the Global
Compact’s ten principles on human rights, labour rights, the
environment and anti-corruption. Can be integrated into a GRI report.13
■ The UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights
Reporting on human rights. Can be integrated into a GRI report. 15
■ The UN Sustainable Development Goals
Although this is not a reporting standard, some companies may find it
useful to show how sustainability goals are relevant to them.16
9 integratedreporting.org/resource/international-ir-framework/
10 www.fsb-tcfd.org
11 http://mneguidelines.oecd.org/
12 www.sasb.org
13 www.transparency.org/whatwedo/publication/business_principles_for_countering_bribery
14 www.unglobalcompact.org
15 www.ohchr.org
16 www.sustainabledevelopment.un.org - Among others, the Dutch Central Bank provides a framework to align with Sustainable Development Goals.
More information on how companies can report on sustainability targets is available at: www.sdgcompass.org
48 Euronext | Guidelines to Issuers for ESG Reporting Euronext | Guidelines to Issuers for ESG Reporting 49
7.3 | Guidance for issuers in preparing their
report
1| How is the company moving towards a sustainable business strategy?
2| How can ESG aspects support the achievement of business goals?
3| What are the existing reporting requirements in the market(s) where the
company operates?
4| How can the company use ESG disclosure to engage and align board
members, senior executives and employees?
5| What are the key issues and future goals that relate to ESG from the point
of view of the CEO and/or Chairman?
6| How are board members, senior executives, and employees involved in
ESG-related decision-making, planning, monitoring and activities?
7| What is the company’s main reporting objective(s)?
8| What are the key ESG factors that impact the company strategy in terms of
the risks and opportunities they present?
9| What are the company’s public commitments towards sustainable
development and corporate responsibility?
10| Who are the company’s priority stakeholders? What is the process for
identifying them and how often is that determination refreshed or updated?
How does the company know what ESG matters are relevant for these
stakeholders?
11| What is the company’s materiality determination process related to ESG
matters?
12| How do ESG factors fit within the company’s existing materiality
determination process?
13| Which ESG factors have the most impact on the company’s long-term
value creation?
14| Which ESG factors directly impact the company’s short term financial
performance?
15| How can the company use their feedback to improve performance?
16| Which ESG factors are most relevant for the company’s current and
potential investors?
17| What does the company know about its existing investor base and its
information needs?
18| Has the company identified what information investors need?
19| How has the company effectively engaged investors?
20| How can the company leverage ESG disclosure to deepen relationships
with investors?
21| How does the company maintain and enhance its relationship with
investors?
22| How would the company like to evolve its investor roster in the next five
years?
23| What ESG factors are linked to current and potential regulations?
24| How do financial disclosure controls and obligations apply to the
company’s ESG disclosure?
25| What level(s) of assurance is meaningful and feasible?
26| How does the company determine which third party is the most effective
and relevant to assure the company’s disclosure?
50 Euronext | Guidelines to Issuers for ESG Reporting Euronext | Guidelines to Issuers for ESG Reporting 51
7.4 | Objectives for reporting on ESG
Access to capital
■ Demonstrate transparency and effective management and enhance the
company’s ability to attract long-term capital and favourable financing
conditions.
■ Enhance the company’s ability to attract longer-term investors, including
major institutional investors such as pension funds.
Profitability and growth
■ Generate financial value for the company by identifying opportunities for
cost savings, revenue generation and risk mitigation.
■ Drive continuous improvement by creating accountability and fostering
collaboration with stakeholders.
■ Create a deeper understanding of stakeholder needs, which could drive
innovation and enhance market differentiation and competitiveness.
■ Enable management and board scrutiny of ESG opportunities and risks, and
promote company-wide alignment on goals.
Compliance and risk management
■ Address mandatory reporting requirements on financially material factors
and mitigate compliance risks related to financial disclosure obligations.
■ Establish measurement and reporting processes for ESG information.
■ Help the company stay ahead of emerging ESG and disclosure regulations.
■ Protect the company’s licence to operate by demonstrating corporate
transparency and responsiveness to stakeholder needs.
Corporate reputation and branding
■ Demonstrate corporate commitments to responsibly managing
environmental, social, and economic impacts.
■ Exhibit corporate adherence to industry ethical standards and national
and international frameworks on corporate sustainability and sustainable
development, particularly in light of the UN Sustainable Development Goals.
■ Enhance corporate reputation by improving stakeholders’ perception of a
company through reporting-related stakeholder engagement.
■ Improve employee perception of the company, helping to attract, retain,
motivate and align new and existing employees.
Information flow
■ Ensure that the key stakeholder(s) have the relevant information that is
needed to make informed decisions about the company’s ability to create
value in the short, medium and longer term.
■ Enhanced investor relations and engagement
■ Improve relationships with investors by engaging throughout the reporting
process.
Measurable achievements
■ Measure the realisation of strategy and the extent of ESG impacts. Highquality
reporting enables the measurement of success or progress in key
corporate strategies as well as impacts of corporate practices.
