MANAGEMENT REPORT
Article 19
Contents of the management report
1. The management report shall include a fair review of the
development and performance of the undertaking's business and
of its position, together with a description of the principal risks
and uncertainties that it faces.
The review shall be a balanced and comprehensive analysis of
the development and performance of the undertaking's business
and of its position, consistent with the size and complexity of
the business.
To the extent necessary for an understanding of the undertaking's development, performance or position, the analysis
shall include both financial and, where appropriate, nonfinancial key performance indicators relevant to the particular
business, including information relating to environmental and
employee matters. In providing the analysis, the management
report shall, where appropriate, include references to, and
additional explanations of, amounts reported in the annual
financial statements.
2. The management report shall also give an indication of:
(a) the undertaking's likely future development;
(b) activities in the field of research and development;
(c) the information concerning acquisitions of own shares
prescribed by Article 24(2) of Directive 2012/30/EU;
(d) the existence of branches of the undertaking; and
(e) in relation to the undertaking's use of financial instruments
and where material for the assessment of its assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss:
(i) the undertaking's financial risk management objectives
and policies, including its policy for hedging each major
type of forecasted transaction for which hedge
accounting is used; and
(ii) the undertaking's exposure to price risk, credit risk,
liquidity risk and cash flow risk.
3. Member States may exempt small undertakings from the
obligation to prepare management reports, provided that they
require the information referred to in Article 24(2) of Directive
2012/30/EU concerning the acquisition by an undertaking of its
own shares to be given in the notes to the financial statements.
4. Member States may exempt small and medium-sized
undertakings from the obligation set out in the third
subparagraph of paragraph 1 in so far as it relates to nonfinancial information.
Article 20
Corporate governance statement
1. Undertakings referred to in point (1)(a) of Article 2 shall
include a corporate governance statement in their management
report. That statement shall be included as a specific section of
the management report and shall contain at least the following
information:
(a) a reference to the following, where applicable:
(i) the corporate governance code to which the undertaking is subject,
L 182/38 Official Journal of the European Union 29.6.2013 EN
(ii) the corporate governance code which the undertaking
may have voluntarily decided to apply,
(iii) all relevant information about the corporate governance
practices applied over and above the requirements of
national law.
Where reference is made to a corporate governance code
referred to in points (i) or (ii), the undertaking shall also
indicate where the relevant texts are publicly available.
Where reference is made to the information referred to in
point (iii), the undertaking shall make details of its corporate
governance practices publicly available;
(b) where an undertaking, in accordance with national law,
departs from a corporate governance code referred to in
points (a)(i) or (ii), an explanation by the undertaking as
to which parts of the corporate governance code it
departs from and the reasons for doing so; where the undertaking has decided not to refer to any provisions of a
corporate governance code referred to in points (a)(i) or
(ii), it shall explain its reasons for not doing so;
(c) a description of the main features of the undertaking's
internal control and risk management systems in relation
to the financial reporting process;
(d) the information required by points (c), (d), (f), (h) and (i) of
Article 10(1) of Directive 2004/25/EC of the European
Parliament and of the Council of 21 April 2004 on
takeover bids (1), where the undertaking is subject to that
Directive;
(e) unless the information is already fully provided for in
national law, a description of the operation of the shareholder meeting and its key powers and a description of
shareholders' rights and how they can be exercised; and
(f) the composition and operation of the administrative,
management and supervisory bodies and their committees.
2. Member States may permit the information required by
paragraph 1 of this Article to be set out in:
(a) a separate report published together with the management
report in the manner set out in Article 30; or
(b) a document publicly available on the undertaking's website,
to which reference is made in the management report.
That separate report or that document referred to in points (a)
and (b), respectively, may cross-refer to the management report,
where the information required by point (d) of paragraph 1 of
this Article is made available in that management report.
3. The statutory auditor or audit firm shall express an
opinion in accordance with the second subparagraph of
Article 34(1) regarding information prepared under points (c)
and (d) of paragraph 1 of this Article and shall check that the
information referred to in points (a), (b), (e) and (f) of paragraph
1 of this Article has been provided.
4. Member States may exempt undertakings referred to in
paragraph 1 which have only issued securities other than
shares admitted to trading on a regulated market, within the
meaning of point (14) of Article 4(1) of Directive 2004/39/EC,
from the application of points (a), (b), (e) and (f) of paragraph 1
of this Article, unless such undertakings have issued shares
which are traded in a multilateral trading facility, within the
meaning of point (15) of Article 4(1) of Directive 2004/39/EC.