Finance your future. Made in Germany

Communicating
sustainability
Seven recommendations for issuers.

Contents.
3		

Introduction.

4		

Purpose of this guide.

6		

Rationale for corporate sustain­ability disclosure.

7		

Seven best practice recommendations.
8		

1. Picture the top-down approach.
2. Consider stakeholder requirements.
3. Provide material information.
4. Focus on a “risk and return” approach

11
15
18

28

 . Give preference to quantitative data
5
6. Refer to standards (international / national)
7. Pay attention to presentational issues

30

Conclusion

22
26

32
Appendix 1:
		
	
Rating / research agencies with a focus on sustainability
35
			

Appendix 2:
Sustainability (reporting) standards

41
			

Appendix 3:
Glossary

Introduction

Introduction
The seven recommendations in this guide are designed to assist issuers of all
sizes and sectors in integrating environmental, social and governance (ESG)
information into effective capital market communication 1). There are no formal
obligations associated with this guide. It is expressly not designed to constitute
mandatory new procedures for capital market communication that apply to listed
issuers on Deutsche Börse’s platforms. Instead, it should be seen as a useful
tool in aligning the complex issue of sustainability with the concrete information
requirements of investors /analysts by taking capacity constraints at corporate
level into account.
This guide describes the rationale for, and offers practical guidance for developing more comprehensive, investor-focused corporate reporting on a voluntary
basis. The guide consolidates best practice in corporate sustainability disclosure
as identified by national and international as well as mainstream and SRI
investors. It will be regularly revised and updated by Deutsche Börse Group.
This guide is a joint initiative of Deutsche Börse Group together with BVI (German
Funds Association), Deutsches Aktieninstitut (German Equity Institute), DIRK
(Association for Investor Relations in Germany) and DVFA (Society of Investment
Professionals in Germany). The recommendation to prepare this guide was taken
by the Issuer Markets Advisory Committee (IMAC) of Deutsche Börse Group.
The IMAC is composed of issuers, investors, advisors and banks and advises
Deutsche Börse in primary market-related issues.
In its role as marketplace organiser, Deutsche Börse brings together issuers and
investors on its platforms and strives to improve transparency and liquidity in
capital markets. This initiative is designed to encourage and support issuers to
incorporate sustainability information into their capital market communication.
Deutsche Börse would like to thank all the organisations and individuals involved
in the preparation of this guide for the in-depth dialogue, and in particular for the
expertise and time they dedicated to this document. Specifically, this includes
the contributions in the form of current market practices, examples and input to the
seven recommendations provided by BVI, Deutsche Asset & Wealth Management,
DIRK, DVFA, DZ BANK AG and SAP AG, as well as other well-known investors and
experienced issuers of various sizes from a variety of sectors.

1) C
 apital market communication within this context has to be distinguished from information which has to be provided by listed companies pursuant to applicable reporting requirements and by mandatory disclosure obligations
(such as ad hoc announcements).

3

4

Purpose of this guide

Purpose of this guide
To provide practical, useful guidance
This guide will help issuers address topics related to environmental, social and
governance (ESG) issues in their capital market communication, as these aspects
are among the factors influencing investment decisions today by institutional and
retail investors. The guide consolidates the current practices of investors and
issuers, and aims to provide guidance. It consists of useful recommendations as
well as examples designed to enhance corporate communication and disclosure,
reflecting the experiences and expertise of leading European investors in ensuring
effective capital market communication.
ESG information already available in the market has not yet been standardised.
Issuers are assisted and guided in a structured way on how to approach the topic
of sustainability when they incorporate it into their capital market communication.
Reading this guide will also encourage issuers to focus and limit their ESG-related
reporting to the content that is really material (“less is more”). This is because
investors / analysts are not interested in too detailed or irrelevant information. The
guide seeks to “navigate” the issuer through the complex process of identifying
the content that is appropriate and relevant to their capital market communication.
Nevertheless, despite the universal approach embodied by this guide, companies
should bear in mind that the substance of their disclosures will depend on their
industry or sector and on an individual analysis of the materiality of the information to their specific stakeholders. The recommendations are applicable across all
capital markets. The best practice examples are a result of various discussions
with involved investors. With its focus on capital market communication, this guide
is specifically written with the investors’/ analysts’ perspective in mind.

To facilitate voluntary reporting
The guide is designed to support issuers in ensuring effective capital market
communication – in this case as it affects corporate sustainability disclosure. It is
not designed to constitute mandatory procedures for capital market communication that apply to listed issuers (no statement of compliance is required). However, it delivers sound reasons for voluntarily complementing financial disclosure
to allow for a more holistic and thus robust assessment of corporate performance
by institutional and retail investors in the equity and bond markets. The overall
objectives are to increase confidence and trust in the company and to deliver additional arguments for an investment in the company.

Purpose of this guide

To complement existing standards
The guide is also not intended to replace existing standards (codes, guidelines
etc.) for managing or reporting sustainability performance. Rather, it should
be treated as guidance that summarises demand-side requirements from investors / analysts, helps companies to use and benefit from existing national and
­international standards and identifies suitable, company-specific ways of inte­
grating relevant sustainability aspects into their reporting.

To consider resources constraints at corporate level
Small and medium-sized businesses in particular have limited capacity for investing in corporate reporting. As one of its major guiding principles, the guide therefore focuses on a cost-effective implementation approach that adds value. By
consolidating internationally accepted reporting practices with respect to communicating sustainability to investors, the guide helps to prioritise and to identify
key reporting issues, as well as to present the information in a manner that meets
the needs of investors / analysts.
To help reduce research effort on the issuer side, the appendix lists sustainability
rating and research agencies as well as reporting standards that are often cited in
sustainability reporting.

Elements of good capital market communication
Good capital market communication is made up
of different elements with ESG communication
being just one of them. The most important thing
is that it is effective and provides investors with
information that is to the point, accurate and
allows them to make well-founded investment
decisions. This applies to all topics, not just
sustainability.

ESG communication

5

6

Rationale for corporate sustainability disclosure

Rationale for corporate
sustainability disclosure
For some years, investors, analysts and service providers – such as rating agencies
and research organisations – have been seeking a more comprehensive view of
listed companies. There are external factors that influence enterprise value that may
not be covered adequately by standard financial reporting. A reporting perspective
that goes beyond “mere” financial factors – including environmental, social and
governance (ESG) considerations – enables stakeholders to make more informed
assessments about the ability of a company to create and sustain value.

Rationale for corporate sustainability disclosure
Financials

Environmental aspects
Social aspects
Governance aspects

Evaluation of
opportunities and risks

Informed assessment
of the ability of a
company to create and
sustain value

Source: Deutsches Aktieninstitut e.V.

Although they are sometimes termed “non-financial” or “extra-financial” factors,
ESG indicators may in fact have very strong economic implications, depending
on the quality of the way they are managed:
1.	C ompanies that identify and manage opportunities associated with sustainability
may be better equipped to succeed in highly competitive markets. Integrating
sustainability aspects can thus result in better strategies and organisational
strengths, which may in turn translate into improved investment returns.
2.	Sustainability management and reporting enables companies to identify risks
from an integrated perspective and to develop appropriate mitigation strategies.
If two potential investments can be expected to generate the same return,
factoring sustainability aspects into the investment analysis serves as an additional filter that enables better risk protection.
3.	A more comprehensive, interdisciplinary and interdepartmental perspective on
management and reporting promotes innovation. Equally, it enhances cooperation within companies and raises awareness for the interrelatedness of societal
and business needs.
4.	C orporate sustainability disclosure enables investors / analysts to define the
risk / return profile of a potential investment target more accurately. In an
investment portfolio, leveraging opportunities while incurring limited risk may
lead to a risk-adjusted above-average return.

7

Seven best practice recommendations

Seven best practice recommendations
The following seven recommendations for corporate sustainability reporting are
designed to support companies in developing a more holistic, integrated corporate
reporting with the objective of effective capital market communication. They are
divided into two sections: the first four recommendations deal with disclosure
content (what to report), while the other three recommendations refer to reporting
principles (how to report).

Disclosure content

+
1. Picture the topdown approach

+
2. Consider stakeholder
requirements

+
3. Provide material
information

+
4. Focus on a “risk and
return” approach

Reporting principles

+

5. Give
preference to
quantitative data



6. Refer to standards
(international / national)



7. Pay attention to
presentational issues

ESG communication

8

Recommendation 1: Picture the top-down approach

1. Picture the top-down approach
It is the leadership of senior management – the proverbial “tone at the top” – that
really drives sustainability in companies.

The board should show sustainability leadership
It is the board’s responsibility to define and control key topics and key performance
indicators (KPIs) that reflect the company’s economic, environmental, social and
governance impacts. This means that senior management needs to set the sustainability agenda and make sure that line organisations understand and embrace
the goals that have been set and the targets that have been agreed. A proof point
may be whether a board member is able to explain sustainability data and their
business implications in a one-on-one situation.

Concentrate on a handful of key indicators
In their reporting, companies should concentrate on a small number of management accounting / financial control measures. These should be relevant to management, linked to the corporate strategy and illustrate the impact of ESG drivers
on the company’s financial results. They should also be backed up by a clear
description. Consideration and / or prioritisation of the KPIs by management will
highlight the company’s unique selling points.

Recommendation 1: Picture the top-down approach.

Example 1: mutual benefits to company and society.
The following example is taken from the annual report of a DAX ® chemical
company that produces superabsorbents for use in diapers.

Superabsorbents for diapers
Value for our company

Value for the environment

Around 30% growth in volumes in 2010 for
superabsorbents used in premium modern diapers

Up to 14% less energy consumption over the
entire life cycle of the diapers

In recent years there has been a clear global trend
toward ever thinner premium diapers for babies.
We have helped shape this trend by collaborating
closely with our customers to develop tailor-made
superabsorbents for the manufacture of these
diapers. This enabled us to increase sales volumes
of our superabsorbents for premium diapers by
around 30% in 2010.

Throughout the entire life cycle of a new premium
diaper, energy consumption is reduced by up
to 14% compared with older models, depending
on the size of the diaper. This is mainly due to
the reduction of energy-intensive components.
In addition, our products help to simplify the
manufacturing process of diapers – thus saving
even more energy.

Explain the link between non-financial data and financial performance
With the emergence of integrated reporting (the intelligent combination of financial
and sustainability reporting), companies are assessing the link between non-financial data (incl. ESG) and financial performance. The more companies focus on a
small number of compelling linkages between financials and non-financials, and
seek to describe how ESG drives value, the more fit-for-purpose ESG aspects
will be for investors.

9

10

Recommendation 1: Picture the top-down approach

Example 2: explanation of connectivity between financial and
non-financial information
The following example is taken from the website of a DAX ® software provider
and shows the connections between its non-financial and financial performance.

Customer success is measured using the Net Promoter Score, i.e. the percentage of customers that are likely to recommend the company to friends
or colleagues minus the percentage of customers that are unlikely to do so.
The example illustrates the connection between customer success and oper­
ating margin. The company expects that positive experience among its
customers can significantly increase business with existing customers, as
well as help attract new ones. Both results can lower the cost of sales,
thereby increasing its operating margin.

Recommendation 2: Consider stakeholder requirements

2. Consider stakeholder requirements
CSR and sustainability reporting cater for the needs of many stakeholders with
differing requirements and expectations in terms of topics, as well as the format
and granularity of data. As a subset of the general sustainability audience,
investors and financial analysts are economic stakeholders with distinct needs
and expectations:
Investors / analysts are primarily interested in those ESG factors that are material,
i.e. which have a significant impact on the company’s value.
n	
Materiality is defined in terms of risks (e.g. penalties, lawsuits, reputation) and
opportunities (products, markets, geographies).
n	
The format and granularity of data need to take into account the specific use of
information by investors. It should be similar in format, quality and presentation
to financial data: a small number of material KPIs; if possible, quantified – and
ideally monetised – in tabular format rather than in prose style.
n 

Analyse stakeholder interests
An analysis of relevant stakeholders’ concerns and interests helps to explore stakeholder expectations and adapt to subsequent changes. Maintaining a dialogue
and engagement with important stakeholders is critical for tracking those (changing) expectations. It enables a company to react in good time and to adapt its
corporate strategy to the needs of society and changing values. Stakeholder
dialogue also offers guidance for identifying the content of sustainability reporting. Investors’ needs regarding the type and content of information, including the
way such information is disclosed, should be decisive; other stakeholders such
as clients, regulators and representatives of civil society should also be taken into
account, based on their relevant importance. Investors / analysts are interested
in sustainability information in relation to the company’s financial reporting;
sustainability information is useful for an investor only if it fits into other strategic
information relevant for an investment decision, such as an assessment of risks
and opportunities.

11

12

Recommendation 2: Consider stakeholder requirements

Example 3: stakeholder survey to involve investors in how KPIs are
determined
A large southern European energy provider has been asking international
institutional investors and SRI rating agencies to participate in an online
survey. The aim is to determine the ESG KPIs in a future integrated report.
The survey is divided into four sections with only few questions in each of
them relating to the following issues:
A. Environmental
Plants Load Factor / Environmental Compatibility / GHG Emissions /
Recycling & General Waste / Water Consumption
B. Social
Employment / Diversity / Training / Health and Safety / Supplier Agree­ments / Impacts on Communities / Initiatives in Favour of Communities /
Value Added by Stakeholder
C. Governance
Corporate Governance / Code of Ethics / Anti-competitive Behaviour /
Non-compliance
D. ESG Information in Corporate Website
Four questions relating to the choice and placing of ESG indicators on
the company’s website

Make ESG information part of your capital market story
Disclosure content should not just be available on demand. Integrating ESG data
into general information can only add value for stakeholders if they are aware
that this information exists. Hence, sustainability information should be an integral part of general corporate information communicated via established corporate
communication channels. This should also include investor relations: investor
relations officers should be aware of economic, environmental and social value
drivers. In the future, investor relations will increasingly have the opportunity
(but will also be faced with the task) of explaining a company’s capital market
story using arguments from the field of ESG. This requires a reliable database,
measurable goals and comparable figures.

Recommendation 2: Consider stakeholder requirements

Example 4: IR press release on an ESG topic
The example shown below is an excerpt from a press release issued by the
investor relations team of a DAX ® chemical company explaining the company’s
ESG performance in the previous year. The company’s name has been
­anonymised and substituted by “our company”:
“Positive results in goals for environment, health and safety
In 2012, our company reduced its greenhouse gas emissions by 31.7% per
metric ton of sales product and increased its energy efficiency by 19.3%
compared with baseline 2002. The number of work-related accidents dropped
in the same period by 48%. The progress in environment, health and safety
are documented in our annual report. […]”

Serve information sources of stakeholders
Information on a company’s sustainability profile should also be made available
through public sources: Research and rating agencies use data to evaluate sustainability profiles. In particular, institutional investors buy sustainability data for
their own evaluation tools. Thus, the more accurate and up-to-date the company
profile is, the better investors / analysts will be informed about that company’s
sustainability performance. Companies should therefore be familiar with the primary
sources used by capital market relevant stakeholders to obtain sustainability information for their investment decisions. Companies should prioritise the sources and
provide them with timely and accurate news about their sustainability performance.

13

14

Recommendation 2: Consider stakeholder requirements

Example 5: analysis of shareholder concerns at annual meetings
Each year, the German Investment Fund Association publishes principles gov­
erning the analysis of shareholder meetings (the German abbreviation is ALHV).
The ALHV provide guidance on good corporate governance for the analysis
of shareholder meetings. Hence, it serves as basis for investment companies
to represent the investors’ interests at the annual shareholder meeting.
­C ompanies may use the ALHV for the analysis of investors’ interests and
amend their disclosures in addressing those interests.

See list of rating agencies / research providers in Appendix 1.

Recommendation 3: Provide material information

3. Provide material information
The materiality of the content is a key factor in reporting sustainability information.
If the principle of materiality is ignored, there is a risk of reporting too much
information on the one hand, or irrelevant information on the other. Both of these
make it difficult for investors to draw conclusions from the reported data. This
recommendation helps to define and recognise materiality 2).

Define materiality for your company
Material information in business reporting is defined as matters that may influence the assessment of the company’s ability to create and sustain value or
that already do so. In financial reporting, information is considered material if
its omission or misstatement could influence decisions by the users of financial
statements. In sustainability reporting, this scope is extended to environmental,
social, political, legal and commercial topics and indicators.
The scope, weighting and granularity of reported topics may vary due to a company’s unique characteristics (e.g. its business model or operating environment),
industry-specific trends, as well as the level of a company’s sustainability performance.

Example 6: determining materiality
The following example is fictitious to demonstrate the consistent application of
the materiality principle.
An oil and gas company would ignore the principle of materiality if its sustainability reporting was only about the diversity of its employees and its social
investment, while omitting data and information about its environmental impact
or health and safety issues. On the other hand, a software company, for
example, needs to focus on the resource that is most important for its knowledge-based “production process”: its employees and its intellectual capital.

2) German listed companies have to include non-financial performance indicators in the management report in case
these are material for understanding of the course of business or the state of the company (sections 289 and 315
of the Handelsgesetzbuch – German Commercial Code).

15

16

Recommendation 3: Provide material information

To identify material information in the wide range of topics and indicators available
for ESG reporting, companies should consider the following criteria, among others:
	What are the key value drivers of our business process?
	What are the material issues for relevant stakeholders?
n	
What are the most important internal and external factors identified as having
an impact on the company’s value creation – in both the short and the long term?
Internal factors may include the company’s ability to respond to changing conditions; external ones may be political, market-related, environmental, social,
technological, or legal.
n
n

Once material topics have been identified, the task is then to prioritise them by
the magnitude of their effect on the company and the likelihood of their occurrence,
and to present them accordingly in the report. Information that is not material
should therefore be omitted.

Example 7: materiality matrix
This “materiality matrix” of a DAX ® chemical and pharmaceutical company
explains the relative importance of issues to external stakeholders and the
company
itself. It is the result of extensive surveys and discussions.

To emphasise the interdependence of financial and non-financial information, a
set of key performance indicators should be provided in a single document. It is
important to demonstrate the linkages between a company’s corporate strategy,
its governance model and its social, environmental and financial performance.
In short, sustainability information should be an integral element of a company’s
reporting, rather than a set of data and targets published / communicated separately from / not linked to the company’s core business.

17

18

Recommendation 4: Focus on a “risk and return” approach

4. Focus on a “risk and return” approach
Company analysis by the investment community considers and relies not just on
key financial data and economic merits, but also on the quality of ESG-related
content. Companies should provide reliable information on material components
of value creation (financial and non-financial), critical interdependencies between
them and how those factors are integrated into the strategy, governance and
operations of a company. Taking responsibility seriously requires understanding
the risks and opportunities created by environmental, social and corporate
governance issues.

Communicate effective risk management and mitigation
By paying attention to material issues for different stakeholders, companies are
better equipped to foresee upcoming risks and to manage them when they occur.
Managing risk – whether environmental, social, or operational – should be an integral element of business operations as a normal part of business and risk culture. Systems and policies should therefore be in place throughout all operations.
Responsible business practices can enhance performance and reduce the cost of
external funding. Vice versa, a negative ESG-related event could mean not just a
sustained period of underperformance and higher costs of external funding, but
may entail reputational damage, require changes in senior management and lead
to increased regulatory activity – or even takeover.
A company is acting responsibly when it is ready to measure and manage its impact on society and the environment. In addition, there are several links between
good governance and a positive value performance: greater transparency enhances investors’ confidence and positively influences valuations. A responsible
and results-based culture embraced by the top management as well as tighter
supervision by the Board can help avoid a number of unfavourable strategic decisions such as overly expensive acquisitions, poor diversification, management
short-termism etc.

Recommendation 4: Focus on a “risk and return” approach

Example 8: including ESG risks in general risk management
The following example is excerpted from the report of a German MDAX
construction company (the company name has been anonymised and
substituted by “our company”):
“Our company’s global business naturally involves risks. But only undetected
and hence unmanaged risks pose a real potential threat. Risks include all
developments that can negatively impact the attainment of qualitative and
quantitative business goals, including sustainability targets. Our risk management system reduces this potential to a minimum through proactive risk control and therefore plays a major part in securing the company’s future and
successful onward development as well as in enhancing our earning power.
Risk management at our company encompasses all organizational processes
and instruments designed to detect risks at an early stage as well as to develop
and implement suitable countermeasures in time. Sustainability and risk
management are therefore comparable, complementary concepts: We apply
structured processes and deploy defined control tools and processes to
prevent future threats to the company. […]”

Communicate sustainability-related business opportunities
Companies face a wide range of challenging business trends, e.g. scarcity of
­natural resources, new regulations, impacts of innovation and new technologies
etc. These require new solutions and hence innovative products and services
that meet societal challenges and may therefore lay the basis for future growth.
These sustainability-related innovations may represent unique selling propositions
and should be communicated accordingly. Among other things, properly man­
aging environmental, social and corporate governance issues strengthens a company’s industry positioning and return on capital. Sustainability practices are
thus becoming crucial in order to stay competitive in the future.

19

20

Recommendation 4: Focus on a “risk and return” approach

Example 9: investing in research and development to anticipate and meet
clients’ future needs
The following example is excerpted from the website of a French environmental services company (the company name has been anonymised and
substituted by “our company”):
“Research is one of the mainstays of our company’s strategy. It enables the
Group and its business units to offer innovative products and services to
meet market expectations and to anticipate our clients’ future needs. In order
to meet the main challenges of sustainable development, the Group relies,
amongst others, on the work of its experts and researchers in the different
research and development centres (R&D). In 2012 the Group filed 29 new
patents and around 40 new trademarks. […]
When R&D meets current and future challenges
Besides the major risks related to health and the environment, the Group’s
work in research aims at resolving issues related to sustainable development
and at accompanying our clients in order to:
	Fight against climate change, the Group intends to reduce greenhouse gas
emissions, optimise energy resources and to develop renewable energy.
n 
Limit the impact of Group activities, on resources and biodiversity.
n 
Manage environmental impacts, the Group masters the techniques enabling
the dispersion of odours to be measured and has the means to treat this.
n 
Protect and guarantee the safety of water, distributed to consumers by
working side by side with health authorities.
n	
Optimise water resources, thanks to information technology (Smart Water)
which represents one of the pathways to productivity and to major innovation for the Group’s businesses.”
n

Recommendation 4: Focus on a “risk and return” approach

Highlight measures to reduce risks and leverage opportunities
Responsible business practices not only facilitate risk reduction but also contribute
positively to operational and share price performance. Actions undertaken to
improve the performance of the company are therefore critical for assessing the
potential increase in the returns of the company in the short, medium and long
term. Examples of such measures include accommodating customer needs, increasing innovation in products, attracting and retaining skilled labour, increasing
productivity, reducing negative impacts on the environment, securing limited key
natural resources, having globally accepted ethical labour conditions along the
value chain etc. Furthermore, policies, training programmes and activities directed
at reducing risks – including an anti-corruption policy, whistle-blower programmes,
good employee relations, monitoring the value chain for key environmental and
social issues etc. – may lead to lower costs of debt and to higher credit ratings.
All in all, higher performance, better returns, lower risks and lower cost of capital
should lead to a higher company valuation and a better risk / return profile.
Providers of capital assess the attractiveness of an investment based on the
quality of management, which is by and large reflected in the quality of the
company’s corporate disclosures. Hence, it is ultimately the responsibility of the
company itself to highlight the financial value of its sustainability strategy. The
better the quality of the information, the more easily it can be appreciated by
the market, which in turn implies a more favourable risk-adjusted return on the
company’s shares.

21

22

Recommendation 5: Give preference to quantitative data

5. Give preference to quantitative data
All content should be presented in a way that meets investors’/ analysts’ requirements. Its structure must be clear and the organisation of the report must be
comprehensive, e.g. by providing information in form of an executive summary,
with key messages listed in a table or in bullet points.

Complement KPIs with relevant context information
Quantitative data is better than qualitative data because it can be compared with
similar data from other organisations. If at all possible, sustainability-related data
should be presented in the same format as traditional financial information. Issuers
should therefore try to “simplify” reality in an effort to provide hard, objective,
numerical data, bearing in mind that the language of the financial markets should
be applied when discussing sustainability as an investment topic.
Investors / analysts with a focus on sustainability appreciate well-arranged charts
or tables indicating the company’s ESG performance. This should – if necessary –
be accompanied by a narrative description of why certain KPIs increased or decreased, whether this is a good thing or a bad thing, and an indication of the expected future performance 3). Keep this narrative as short and simple as possible.
Sometimes, working with qualitative information is unavoidable. However, if a
qualitative narrative is used, it should always be supplemented by quantitative
data, benchmarks and targets.

Be as specific as possible
The metrics that are regarded as being the most useful in corporate sustainability
disclosures are those that quantify financial impact, measure business opportunities
and risks, and are transparent about the calculation methodology. If a company
is facing other issues that are more difficult to quantify, information on mitigation
activities or actions designed to exploit new opportunities would also be an alternative way of improving disclosure.

3) A
 s with any forward-looking statement, issuers should thoroughly evaluate whether the inclusion of a disclaimer
is necessary.

Recommendation 5: Give preference to quantitative data

Example 10: quantification of results
The following example is excerpted from the sustainability report 2012 of a
large US consumer goods company:
“We have also made very strong progress over the past five years in improving
the environmental profile of our operations. Our efforts have delivered absolute reductions in each one of our four footprints: 68 percent reduction in
waste disposed, 14 percent reduction in water usage, 7 percent reduction in
energy usage, and 5 percent reduction in direct CO 2 emissions. We have
also achieved significant reductions on a production-adjusted basis (i.e., reduction per unit of production) in each of our footprints: 71 percent in waste,
22 percent in water, 16 percent in energy, and 14 percent in direct CO 2
emissions. Over the ten-year period of 2002–2012, we halved our environmental footprint on a production-adjusted basis, achieving a 74 percent
reduction in waste, 58 percent in water, 52 percent in energy, and 54 percent in direct CO 2 emissions (Scope 1). All these operations results have
led to nearly $1 billion in cost savings, representing an important contribution to our bottom line.”

Provide monetary information on ESG performance, if possible
Some sustainability initiatives represent a long-term investment on the part of a
company and it may be difficult to measure their effects immediately in monetary
terms. However, there is always a business case for sustainability. It can be explored by linking the ESG perspective to the financial (fundamental) perspective
and vice versa. Whenever possible, explain how ESG performance and financial
performance influence each other.

23

24

Recommendation 5: Give preference to quantitative data

Example 11: communicating the value of a green product range
A DAX ® engineering company has the following to say about the financial
value of its products with special environmental benefits:
“Our Environmental Portfolio, which bundles products and solutions that
contribute to environmental and climate protection, has captured an outstanding position on the technology market worldwide and is one of our
strategic growth drivers. In fiscal 2012, the Portfolio generated revenue of
€33.2 billion and made a substantial contribution to climate protection.
At the same time, our ecofriendly products and solutions enabled customers
worldwide to slash their CO 2 emissions by 332 million tons – an amount
equal to some 41% of the CO 2 emissions generated in Germany in 2010.”

Define specific measurable ESG targets
In their annual reporting, companies should define measurable targets using both
absolute data (e.g. total tons of CO 2 per year) as well as ratios (e.g. kilograms
of CO 2 per passenger kilometre) for their material topics. Also targets link the ESG
perspective with the economic dimension of sustainability (e.g. sustainabilityrelated products as a percentage of total sales). In general, sustainability targets
should show a clear link to the optimisation of stakeholder value, while at the same
time being consistent with the company’s long-term strategy. Ideally, appropriate
sustainability metrics should be linked to management reward systems to increase
the credibility of the targets.
In reality, targets cannot always be achieved. Reporting should reflect both
positive and negative aspects of an organisation’s sustainability performance
to enable a complete assessment of its overall performance.

Provide an outlook and talk about challenges and opportunities 4)
Investors are interested not only in past performance but also in the future outlook,
especially as regards expected industry trends and corporate strategies for facing
upcoming challenges. Forward-looking sustainability metrics play a crucial role in

4) G
 erman listed companies have to report on expected developments and associated opportunities and risks in the
(group’s) management report (sections 289 and 315 of the Handelsgesetzbuch, German Commercial Code).

Recommendation 5: Give preference to quantitative data

reporting. Investors expect companies to disclose information on how they plan to
sustain and create mid- to long-term value with regard to their corporate strategy.
As part of this exercise, companies should try to assess the impact of their industry
and of market trends on the future of their sustainability performance.

Example 12: presenting a strategy to reduce CO 2 emissions
The following example describes the strategy to reduce emissions and cut fuel
consumption and is taken from the website of a DAX ® automotive supplier
(the company name has been anonymised and substituted by “our company”):
Environment
Reaching the goal of Zero Emissions in view of a changing climate, fewer
fossil fuels and increasing individual mobility has become a must in environmental thinking. Our company is committed to reducing motor vehicle CO 2
emissions even further. Delivering innovative, sustainable products to its
customers worldwide, our company focuses on four major strategic thrusts
in its objective to significantly reduce vehicle fuel consumption and thus
carbon dioxide (CO 2) emissions:
Our company brings together four strategies to reduce emissions and
cut fuel consumption
n	
Continuous optimization of fuel and energy consumption, for example by
reducing engine size with the help of turbocharging and direct-injection
technology
n 
Electrification of the drive train and other vehicle functions through the
development of hybrid and electric components and electric power steering
n	
Ergonomic, pro-active driver assistance systems and the use of navigational
information by the various control units
n	
Weight-saving design through optimized manufacturing processes and
­selection of materials, as illustrated by the example of our brake calipers
and electronic braking systems

Companies should also disclose the risks they face in meeting their sustainability
targets. This should include a definition of the risks and the way risks are mitigated
and managed.

25

26

Recommendation 6: Refer to standards (international / national)

6. Refer to standards (international /
national)
The seven recommendations in this guide are generally applicable to any existing
standard as they substantiate the capital market perspective. Therefore, the
guide describes how to use existing reporting standards / guidelines / frameworks
more effectively.

Build on widely acknowledged frameworks
There is a variety of standards governing sustainability reporting available in the
market and companies have to decide which one(s) match best to its company
needs. As a consequence there currently is a certain lack of comparability. On the
positive side, this means a lot of flexibility for companies. However, to facilitate
assessment by investors, it is useful to build on internationally or nationally recognised standards to make reported KPIs comparable as far as possible.
Using standards has one great advantage. They give companies initial guidance
on which data should be published, based on a consensus that has been reached
in years of discussions in international multi-stakeholder forums. Such a framework may serve as a helpful preparation / instruction to involve other departments /
colleagues in developing a more holistic corporate reporting.

Example 13: referring to a standard might also help to meet potential
future legal requirements.
The European Commission’s proposal of 16 April 2013 to publish a nonfinancial statement in the (group’s) annual report (in the strict sense
the (group’s) management report) expressly sets out that publication of
this statement – if based on an approved standard (comparable with the
German Sustainability Code) – will be an acceptable substitute for the
publication of a report if it contains all the information required by the EU.

Recommendation 6: Refer to standards (international / national)

Present material topics according to market usage
Many investors and their service providers use their own assessment criteria and
questionnaires. Hence, despite the existence of reporting standards, companies
still have to formulate and publish their own KPIs that are relevant to their specific
industry sector and corporate strategy. Even within standards, it is increasingly
recognised that the materiality of information differs between industry sectors and
that the disclosure of non-material information is – at least for investors / analysts –
of no added value.
A standard should therefore be seen as general guidance that should be thoroughly
reviewed by a company to facilitate the identification and prioritisation of material
topics as well as to decide on relevant KPIs and disclosure usage best reflecting
its specific industry challenges and corporate strategy.
Appendix 2 gives an overview of the most commonly used reporting standards
and general sustainability frameworks.

27

28

Recommendation 7: Pay attention to presentational issues

7. Pay attention to presentational issues
With regard to existing corporate reporting practice, a coherent (combined) presentation of financial and non-financial information instead of publishing a separate
sustainability report seems to be an efficient solution as it offers the investor / analyst an extensive source of information.

Forms of presentation
After identifying the material sustainability aspects and the relevant indicators, as
well as any contextual information that needs to be reported (e.g. benchmark data),
the next question that arises is one of presentation. Investors and analysts who
are focused on financial KPIs will prefer ESG data to be presented in a condensed
format that is clearly arranged (table). Ideally, it should be provided simultaneously
with the (standard) financial reporting highlighting the interdependencies 5).

Example 14: tabular presentation of KPIs
A DAX ® automotive company presents its key figures of the financial year in
its sustainability report as follows:

The key figures of financial year 2012

Unit

2012

2011

2010

Corporate profile
Revenue

in millions of €

114,297

j

106,540

97,761

Operating profit/EBIT

in millions of €

8,615

l

8,755

7,274

Result before taxes on income

in millions of €

7,718

l

8,449

6,628

Group net income

in millions of €

6,495

j

6,029

Total vehicle sales

in millions

Unit sales
Cars
sales of
of Mercedes-Benz
cars
Unit sales
sales of
of Daimler
trucks Trucks
sales of
of Mercedes-Benz
vans
Unit sales
Vans
Unit sales
sales of
of Daimler
buses Buses
Contract volume
volume of
ofDaimler
financialFinancial
servicesServices

in billions of €

4,674

2.2

j

2.1

1.9

1,451,569

j

1,381,416

1,276,827

461,954

j

425,756

355,263

252,418

l

264,193

224,224

32,088

l

39,741

39,118

80.0

j

71.7

63.7

Our employees
275,087

Number of employees (worldwide)

j

271,370

260,100

8,267

l

8,499

8,841

Average age of the workforce

in years

41.9

R

41.9

41.9

Personnel expenses (worldwide)

in billions of €

18.0

j

17.4

16.5

Average days of training and advanced development (per employee/year)

in days

4.0

j

3.8

2.3

Costs for training and advanced professional development

in millions of €

241.0

j

231.4

201.6

Sickness figures

in percent

5.4

j

5.3

4.9

Provisions for retirement benefits and healthcare

in billions of €

3.0

l

3.2

4.3

Research and development expenditure on environmental protection

in millions of €

2,369

j

2,159

1,876

CO2 emissions of the European fleet (vehicles from Mercedes-Benz Cars)

in g CO2 /km

140

l

150

158

Number of trainees (worldwide)

5) U
 nder
theofname
of Management
Commentary many companies
provide narrative reports,
complement
Proportion
women (Daimler
AG)
in percent
14.4 which
13.9
13.5the
j
Proportionstatements
of women in Leveland
4 management
positions (Daimler
AG)
in percent
13.8 j German
12.9 listed
12.4
­financial
allow company
management
to explain
its objectives and strategies.
compaWorkforce
(worldwide)
4.9 j
4.2
4.9
nies
have turnover
to provide
a mandatory management report (sectionsin percent
289 and 315 of the Handelsgesetzbuch
– German
Proportion of part-time employees (Daimler AG)
in percent
7.1 j
6.9
6.4
Commercial
Code). DRS 20 transforms the general requirements
into more detailed guidance
on the
management
Accident frequency1
number of cases
16.3 j
14.4
15.0
report content.

Product responsibility

Operations-related environmental protection (2012 figures are provisional)
in GWh

10,878

j

10,256

10,114

of which electricity

in GWh

4,865

j

4,590

4,363

of which natural gas

in GWh

4,397

j

4,108

4,037

CO2 emissions (total, scope 1 and 2)

in 1,000 t

3,165

j

3,148

3,164

CO2 emissions (total) per vehicle produced (Mercedes-Benz Cars)

in kg/vehicle

1,003

l

1,062

1,235

CO2 emissions (total) per vehicle produced (Daimler Trucks)

in kg/vehicle

2,701

l

2,708

2,973

CO2 emissions (total) per vehicle produced (Mercedes-Benz Vans)

in kg/vehicle

988

j

912

1,070

CO2 emissions (total) per vehicle produced (Daimler Buses)

in kg/vehicle

2,499

j

2,245

2,299

Solvents (VOC), total

in t

6,462

j

6,342

5,504

Solvents (VOC) per vehicle produced (Mercedes-Benz Cars)

in kg/vehicle

1.04

j

1.02

0.97

Solvents (VOC) per vehicle produced (Daimler Trucks)

in kg/vehicle

8.16

l

8.25

Solvents (VOC) per vehicle produced (Mercedes-Benz Vans)

in kg/vehicle

3.78

j

3.60

3.68

Solvents (VOC) per vehicle produced (Daimler Buses)

in kg/vehicle

9.43

j

8.56

14.91

Waste (recovery rate)

in percent

93

R

93

91

Energy consumption (total)

7.75

Recommendation 7: Pay attention to presentational issues

Explain changes in the selection or development of KPIs
It is essential for companies to demonstrate the application of a clear and consistent methodology to any type of corporate reporting (financial, sustainability,
integrated). KPIs should be defined, compiled and reported consistently. They
should help stakeholders to analyse changes in sustainability performance over
time and enable an assessment relative to the company’s peers.
However, if a methodology is refined, changes should be presented so that
investors can still draw comparisons with previous years, i.e. companies should
restate – where possible – current disclosures alongside historical data (or vice
versa). Likewise, if a company is introducing new KPIs or discontinuing old ones,
it should disclose the reasons for this and illustrate the benefit for stakeholders.

Example 15: new definition of a KPI
This is how a DAX ® engineering company explains the revised use of a KPI
in comparison to the previous year:
“We have recently refined the methodology employed to determine our energy
efficiency. We now use a single KPI which incorporates weighted calculations
of the primary energy input for all of the energy sources used at our sites.
This KPI takes into account the amount of energy used to extract, convert and
distribute the fuels consumed. Fossil energy sources receive a higher primary
energy factor than renewable energy sources. Our sites can accordingly increase their energy efficiency and reduce the impact on natural resources of
their energy demands by strategically adjusting their choice of energy sources.”

29

30

Conclusion

Conclusion
Material ESG aspects in capital market communication are part and parcel of
today’s investment decisions. This is because a more comprehensive picture of
a company on the one hand helps evaluate its current risk profile and indicates
how it is prepared to mitigate future risks. On the other hand, actively communicating sustainability-related key figures and business opportunities, as well as
how these translate into unique selling propositions, raises awareness of corporate strengths and competitiveness.
It allows investors and analysts to gain a more accurate and robust assessment
of a company and its risk and return profile. Furthermore, it delivers additional
­arguments to invest in that company and increases confidence and trust. Sustainability disclosure tends to become a major principle for state-of-the-art corporate
communication, providing for a well-balanced capital market story.
The seven recommendations, including the best practice examples, illustrate
an approach that aims to achieve more holistic corporate reporting, using limited
resources, that will effectively meet the needs of the capital markets.
The challenge is:
	to identify a small number of KPIs that are relevant for management and
evaluation purposes;
n	
ideally, to present them using quantitative metrics, providing relevant context,
illustrating interdependencies between financial data and ESG information,
as well as with the financial reporting; and
n	
to systematically omit information that is not material (and that would merely
obscure key messages and / or confuse investors and analysts).
n

The Guide is designed to help issuers provide investors and analysts with this
­information efficiently and effectively and, by doing so, to enable better-informed
investment decisions.

Conclusion

Appendices

31

32

Appendix 1

Appendix 1:
Rating / research agencies with a focus on
sustainability
The following, non-exhaustive list of rating agencies
and information providers has been compiled from
current public sources and is subject to change and
regular updates. It is classified alphabetically in
three categories.

Inrate
	E stablished in 1990 in Switzerland
n	
C overs 2,700 equities and 200 bond issuers
n	
O ffers sustainability and climate change assessments, portfolio analysis, company screening and
engagement services
n 
inrate.com
n

a) International ESG rating agencies
EIRIS (German partner: imug GmbH)
n	
Established in 1992
n	
imug in Hanover is responsible for ESG research
about German, Swiss and Austrian companies.
imug is one of seven global partners of EIRIS, a
UK-based independent, not-for-profit organisation
providing responsible investment services.
n	
EIRIS manages an Ethical Portfolio Manager (EPM).
This is a web-based database, providing research
on 3,200 listed companies to clients.
n	
It enables company screening based on more than
80 ESG criteria that can be freely chosen.
n	
It is the basis for the FTSE4Good Index.
n
eiris.org and imug.de
GMI Ratings
n	
E stablished in 2010 in Portland, Maine (USA),
through the merger of Audit Integrity, The Corporate
Library, and GovernanceMetrics International
n	
ESG ratings evaluate the sustainable investment
value of public corporations based on 150 risk
factors in six categories.
n	
Accounting and Governance Risk (AGR) ratings
reflect accounting and governance practices statistically associated with an elevated risk of securities
class action litigation, financial restatements and
SEC enforcement actions – published on approximately 18,000 companies and expressed in
two ways (score ranking and category ranking).
n	
gmiratings.com

MSCI
n	
Established in 1968
n	
Leading provider of investment decision support
tools to investors globally
n	
MSCI ESG Research provides ratings and analysis
of environmental, social and governance-related
business practices, including corporate risk and
opportunity ratings, government ratings, and controversy assessments.
n	
MSCI offers ESG Indices, including the Barclays
MSCI ESG Fixed Income Indices, based on in-house
ESG research and expertise. The MSCI ACWI
ESG Index includes large and mid-cap stocks from
both developed and emerging markets.
n	
msci.com
oekom research AG
n	
E stablished in 1993
n	
Today one of the leading ESG rating agencies
n	
oekom assesses the social and environmental
­performance of companies and countries, using
100 social and environmental criteria specified
for each industry.
n	
Calculates the Global Challenges Index
n
o ekom-research.com

Appendix 1

RobecoSAM
(formerly SAM Sustainable Asset Management)
n	
Established in 1995 in Switzerland
n	
A member of the Dutch asset manager Robeco
since 2007
n	
RobecoSAM is an investment specialist focused
­exclusively on Sustainability Investing. Its Corporate
Sustainability Assessment (CSA) looks at financially
material as well as non-financial factors to identify
the companies that are best able to address future
sustainability opportunities and challenges. The CSA
analyses around 2.500 companies per annum.
n	
Provides the research for the S&P Dow Jones
Sustainability Index (DJSI) series
n	
robecosam.com
Sustainalytics
n	
Established in 1992 in the Netherlands
n	
Sustainalytics is a leading provider of sustainability
research and analysis, serving more than 200 investors and financial institutions around the world.
n	
Supports investors in developing and implementing
responsible investment strategies, provides ESG
factors
n	
In Germany, provides a biennial DAX ® ranking on
sustainability
n	
sustainalytics.com
Vigeo
n	
E stablished in 2002 in France
n	
Has expertise in the assessment of the practices
and performance of companies and organisations
on ESG issues
n	
Ratings based on 38 analysis criteria divided into
six distinct fields (human resources, human rights,
environment, business behaviour, corporate governance and community involvement). Based on this,
the Euronext Vigeo Europe 120 selects the 120 bestrated companies in Europe on the basis of Vigeo’s
CSR ratings.
n	
vigeo.com

b) Non-financial data providers
Bloomberg
	ESG products aim at enabling investors across a
range of asset classes to understand the risks and
opportunities associated with potential invest­
ments or counterparties.
n	
The company provides more than 120 indicators
for approximately 5,000 listed companies.
n	
bloomberg.com
n

RepRisk
n 	
RepRisk systematically collects and analyses facts,
criticism and controversies about companies and
projects worldwide, and offers information on activities related to human rights violations, poor
working conditions, corruption, and environmental
destruction.
n	
Information on over 38,800 companies, 8,800 projects, 5,600 NGOs and 4,800 governmental bodies.
n	
reprisk.com
ThomsonReuters
n	
ThomsonReuters provides ESG research data originally developed by Asset4 (taken over in 2009).
n	
Global coverage of more than 4,000 companies
n	
thomsonreuters.com / esg-research-data /

33

34

Appendix 1

c) Specialised agencies

Trucost
	Established in 2000 in England
n	
Today a leading provider of comprehensive natural
capital data
n	
Specialises in quantitative and financial measurements of corporate environmental performance and
disclosure
n	
Issues covered include greenhouse emissions, water use, land use, waste disposal, land / air / water
pollutants.
n	
Where companies do not disclose environmental
metrics, Trucost completes data gaps with advanced econometric modelling.
n	
trucost.com / environmental _ data
n

CDP
n	
Established in 2000 (as “Carbon Disclosure Project”)
n	
Collects and publishes annual analysis reports
­regarding information on management and risks
and opportunities, as well as quantitative data
on greenhouse gas emissions, energy and water
use, and forest related commodities
n	
CDP Climate Change Program: CDP acts on behalf
of 722 institutional investors with US$84 trillion of
assets that get access to the data.
n	
Best scoring companies form the Climate Performance Leadership Index (CPLI).
n	
cdp.net
EthiFinance
n	
Established in 2003 in France
n	
An independent non-financial research agency;
supports both investors and companies (listed or
not) in the definition of their SRI Policy and in
the integration of ESG concerns into their asset
management
n	
ethifinance.com

Appendix 2

Appendix 2:
Sustainability (reporting) standards
The following standards are classified in alphabetical
order by the organisations that developed them or by
their actual name. This does not indicate any prioritisation or level of standardisation.

1. DVFA / EFFAS: KPIs for ESG
The Society of Investment Professionals (DVFA) in
Germany and its coun-terpart in Brussels, the European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies
(EFFAS), have established a framework based on
the pillars of environmental, social, governance and
long-term viability. The latter category clearly indicates the interest of investors in the impact of ESG
on long-term corporate performance. DVFA / EFFAS
have established generic KPIs considered to be relevant across all industries, and have also developed
industry-specific ESG KPIs. Within each pillar, there
are several categories; each category is a “parent”
for which there is a “child” relationship with at least
one KPI. The approach defines clear-cut and measurable indicators that represent the expectations
of investment professionals. So that ESG can be used
as a basis for analysis by investment professionals,
the “KPIs for ESG 3.0” specify certain minimum
requirements for the sustainability management of
individual companies and for the quality of sustainability reporting.

2. German Sustainability Code
The German Sustainability Code is a national standard
that is divided into four parts: strategy, process management, environment and society. It is less demanding than the comprehensive option of the Global
Reporting Initiative (GRI) or the EFFAS Level III. It can
therefore be used to enable full compliance with a
standard, but it does not demand the same level of
reporting capacity that would be necessary to implement one of the other reporting levels mentioned
above. The recommendations of the German Sustainability Code refer to the GRI Guidelines or EFFAS in
order to facilitate the use of the standard. If a company
already uses GRI or EFFAS, the German Sustainability
Code will facilitate transfer of the data. However,
reporting should only be based on one of the two
standards.
The statement of compliance discloses whether the
recommendations of the German Sustainability Code
have been complied with. The statement (“comply
or explain”) should be kept brief and should contain
a link to the corresponding passages within the published reference documents, if applicable. It is not
sufficient to merely state the name of the document
(e.g. “see sustainability report”).
The webside provides a template for the statement of
compliance with the German Sustainability Code.

effas-esg.com / ?page _ id=206
deutscher-nachhaltigkeitskodex.de

35

36

Appendix 2

3. Global Reporting Initiative (GRI): sustainability
reporting guidelines
The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) is a non-profit
organisation that develops guidance for sustainability
reporting in cooperation with companies, industry
associations and non-governmental organisations.
The 4th generation of the guidelines is referred to as
“G4” and contains two parts. The first part, “Reporting Principles and Standard Disclosures”, contains
criteria to be applied by an organisation in preparing
its sustainability report “in accordance” with the
guidelines. It also includes definitions of key terms.
The second part, the “Implementation Manual”,
contains explanations of how to apply the reporting
principles, how to prepare the information to be
disclosed and how to interpret the various concepts
in the guidelines. It also includes references to other
sources, a glossary and general reporting notes.
Organisations should consult the “Implementation
Manual” when preparing a sustainability report.
The guidelines contain precise specifications on what
to report. Reporting is expected to comply with the
following two categories of principles:
Principles for defining report content:
	Stakeholder inclusiveness: the organisation should
identify its stakeholders and explain how it has
responded to their expectations and interests.
n	
Sustainability context: the report should present the
organisation’s performance in the wider context of
sustainability.
n	
Materiality: the report should cover aspects that
reflect the organisation’s significant economic,
environmental and social impacts or substantively
influence the assessments and decisions of stakeholders.
n

n

	C ompleteness: the report should include coverage
of material aspects and their boundaries, sufficient
to reflect economic, environmental and social
impacts and to enable stakeholders to assess the
organisation’s performance in the reporting period.

Principles for defining report quality:
	Balance: the report should reflect positive and
negative aspects of the organisation’s perfor­
mance to enable a reasoned assessment of overall
performance.
n	
C omparability: the organisation should select,
compile and report information consistently.
The reported information should be presented in
a manner that enables stakeholders to analyse
changes in the organisation’s performance over
time and that could support analysis relative to
other organisations.
n	
Accuracy: the reported information should be
sufficiently accurate and detailed for stakeholders
to assess the organisation’s performance.
n	
Timeliness: the organisation should report on a
regular schedule so that information is available in
time for stakeholders to make informed decisions.
n	
Clarity: the organisation should make information
available in a manner that is understandable and
accessible to stakeholders using the report.
n	
Reliability: the organisation should gather, record,
compile, analyse, and disclose information and
processes used in the preparation of a report in a
way that they can be subject to examination and
that establishes the quality and materiality of the
information.
n

The individual information must then be categorised.

Appendix 2

230

Overviews

GRI and Global Compact Index

BASF Report 2012

GRI and Global Compact Index
The complete GRI Index with core and additional indicators as well as the ten principles of the Global Compact can be found at
basf.com/gri_gc_e
Example
16: GRI Index (excerpt)

Global
Compact
Principles

GRI Indicator

Subject

Page

Strategy and profile
1–10

1.1

Chief executive statement

8–9

1.2

Description of key impacts, risks and opportunities

20–31, 35–36, 38–40, 45–47, 80, 84–93, 98, 100,
107–115, 119–121

2.1–2.10

Organizational profile, structure, markets

Cover, 5, 13–16, 18–19, 24, 30–31, 35–39, 44, 48–52,
56–60, 64–70, 73, 75–76, 80–81, 84–86, 90–91,
100–101, 116–122, 124, 163, 168, 226

3.1–3.4

Report profile

Cover, 4–5

3.5–3.13

Report scope and boundary, assurance

Cover, 4–6, 19, 27–28, 55, 145, 230

1–10

4.1–4.7

Corporate governance

8–11, 15, 22, 27, 41–42, 124–126, 129–138, 205–206

1–10

4.8–4.13

Guidelines and policies, codes of conduct, commitments to
external initiatives

4–6, 14, 20–29, 39–44, 84, 92–100, 104–106, 108,
112, 114–115, 124, 127, 129

4.14–4.17

Stakeholder engagement

5, 15, 20, 27–30, 32, 38–42, 44, 84–85, 90–93, 95–99,
102, 104–105, 114–115, 129

Direct economic value generated and distributed

12–14, 16, 23–24, 26, 31, 35–36, 39–40, 42, 44,
48–53, 55–58, 61, 64, 66, 68, 71, 75–77, 80–82, 87,
90–91, 145–150, 175, 177, 205–206

Economic performance
1,4,6,7

EC1

7,8,9

6

18–24, 26, 48–57, 107–115, 143–208

Management approach

EC2

Financial implications due to climate change

27, 29, 31,103, 110

EC3

Coverage of benefit plan obligations

40, 42, 156–157, 187–191

EC6

Local suppliers

92

EC7

Local hiring

24,41

EC8

Development and impact of investments for public benefit

27–28, 39–40, 44

Environmental performance

The extent to which
a company has followed the
18, 20–23, 25, 27–29, 84, 92–106, 127, 129
recommendations 18,
of20,the
GRI
is102,
mapped
in the “GRI
36, 68,
92–93,
104–106
18, 25, report
31–34, 36, 75,
81, 100–103,
105–106
Index”. However, two
levels
must
be distin25, 81, 104–105
guished. Companies
must choose between the “Core”
29, 81, 84–85, 93, 103
option – containing
the essential elements of a sus18, 20, 25, 33–34, 36, 64, 75, 93, 101–102, 106
tainability report –104–105
and the “Comprehensive” option,
106 “Core” option by requiring addiwhich builds on the
8
EN23
Spills
25, 104
tional Standard Disclosures
on the organisation’s
7,8,9
EN26–EN27
Products and services
22, 29, 31–36, 64, 75, 84, 93–95, 97, 100–101,
103–106governance, and ethics and
strategy and analysis,
The “Specific Standard Disclosures” are classified
integrity. In addition,
in three categories:
EN28 Economic, Environmental
Compliance and
196 the organisation is required
7,8,9 The Social
EN29,category
EN30
Transport and
environmental protection
expenditures
29, performance
31–32, 94–95, 98–100, 103,
105–106
to communicate
its
more
extensively
Social.
is further divided
into
Social performance
by reporting all indicators related to identified
the four sub-categories of (1) Labour Practices and
Labor practice and labor quality
material aspects. 20–25, 28, 39–43, 96–97, 129
Decent
Work, (2)
Human Rights, (3) Society and (4)
1,3,6
Management approach
Product
The report on allEmployment
these areas
1,3,6 Responsibility.
LA1–LA5
30, 39–43, 115, 177–178
1
Occupational
health and safety
25, 40–41, 43, 94–98
should
start by LA7–LA8
explaining the management
approach
globalreporting.org
LA10–LA11
Training and education
24, 26–27, 40–41, 95–96, 129
and specifying the indicators, as well as explaining
1,6
LA13
Composition of governance bodies
24, 40–41
their1,6materialityLA14
or relevance to the business.
Equal employment
22, 24, 41–43
The 7,8,9
“General Standard
Disclosures” are applicable
Management approach
to all8,9organisations
preparing sustainability
reports
EN1–EN2
Materials
used
and 8,9
are dividedEN3–EN7
into seven parts for (1)Energy
strategy
EN8–EN10
and 8,9
analysis, (2)
organisational profile, Water
(3) identified
8
EN11–EN15
Biodiversity
material
aspectsEN16–EN20
and boundaries, (4) stakeholder
7,8,9
Emissions
engagement,
(5)EN21
report profile, (6) governance
8
Wastewater and
8
EN22
Waste
(7) ethics
and integrity.

6

LA15

Maternity leave

41

37

38

Appendix 2

4. International Integrated Reporting Committee
(IIRC)
Integrated Reporting – the combination of financial and
sustainability reporting in one process and one document – is an important future option for companies
with advanced strategies and management systems.
In 2011, the International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC) was formed with the purpose of developing
a guideline framework for Integrated Reporting that
would be suitable for international legal implementation in the medium term. The IIRC is a global coalition
of regulators, investors, companies, standard-setters,
the accounting profession and NGOs. The framework
is intended to underpin and accelerate the evolution
of corporate reporting, reflecting developments in
financial, governance, management commentary and
sustainability reporting.
A first draft of this framework was released in
April 2013, with a final version expected for December 2013. This framework encourages companies
to report their strategies and annual performance
along an innovative concept of “capitals” – apart from
financial capital, companies should also report on
their manufactured, human, intellectual, natural and
social capitals and the relationships between them,
and promote understanding of their interdependencies.
theiirc.org

5. Sustainability Accounting Standards Board
The Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB)
is a San Francisco (USA) based non-profit organisation incorporated in July 2011. The organisation establishes industry-based sustainability standards for the
recognition and disclosure of material ESG impacts by
companies traded on U.S. exchanges. SASB provides
standardised processes for determining materiality of
issues within each industry and industry-specific per­
formance metrics to comparing and benchmarking the
peer performance within an industry. SASB’s approach
to industry-specific issues and disclosure of minimum
performance standards differentiates it from existing
sustainability frameworks. The Board is accredited
by the American National Standards Institute (ANSI)
to establish sustainability accounting standards.
SASB aims to develop particular standards for several
industry sectors. A standard reference for the financial
industry will be released on 5 November 2013 in a
provisional version.
sasb.org

6. United Nations Global Compact
The UN Global Compact (UNGC) is a strategic policy
initiative for businesses that are committed to aligning
their operations and strategies with sustainability and
corporate citizenship. It consists of a framework of
ten principles in four areas that are derived from universally accepted UN norms. Signing up to the UNGC
involves an explicit commitment to these principles
by the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) or equivalent.

Appendix 2

These principles are:
Human rights
n	
Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect
the protection of internationally proclaimed human
rights, and
n	
Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit
in human rights abuses.
Labour
	Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom
of association and the effective recognition of the
right to collective bargaining,
n	
Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced
and compulsory labour,
n	
Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour,
and
n	
Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in
respect of employment and occupation.
n

Environment
	Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges,
n	
Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater
environmental responsibility, and
n	
Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion
of environmentally friendly technologies.
n

Anti-corruption
	Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery.

n

The Global Compact recommends creating awareness
for these principles at management level and among
employees when implementing the ten principles.

Companies wishing to join the Global Compact must
deliver an annual progress report on their ongoing
implementation of the Ten Principles (“Communication on progress – COP”). The COP states which
measures have been selected, as well as the state of
their implementation within the four areas mentioned
above. They must be described and assessed, and
the explanation of the progress that has been made
must also be published online.
There are three implementation levels for the UNGC,
depending on the quality of the COP. The lowest is
the “GC Learner” category, designed for companies
which do not (yet) meet all requirements. A company
reaches the “GC Active” level when a minimum
number of requirements have been met. The “GC
Advanced” level is accorded to companies that aim
for peak performance. They report on the implementation of established governance and management
procedures in the areas described above. Companies
may also opt on a voluntary basis for the “Blueprint
for Corporate Sustainability Leadership”, which
requires an even higher degree of detail by reporting
in line with a comprehensive “Corporate Action Plan”.
Both the Blueprint and the “UN Global Compact
Management Model” may also be used merely for
guidance purposes.
Signatories to the UN Global Compact who also
publish a GRI-oriented report may combine the COP
with the GRI report. Assistance on how to do this
is provided in a document entitled “Making the
Connection”. The second part of GRI G4 explains
how GRI and UNGC are interconnected. GRI reporting also helps achieve the “GC Advanced Level”
of the Global Compact.
g lobalreporting.org / resourcelibrary / GRI-UNGCMaking-The-Connection.pdf
unglobalcompact.org / index.html

39

40

Appendix 2

7. Additional standards and guidelines
a) ISO 26000
Developed by the International Organization for
Standardization (ISO), ISO 26000 provides guidance
rather than requirements, so no certification to the
standard is possible, unlike most other ISO standards.
Instead, it helps clarify what social responsibility
for an organisation is, helps translate principles into
effective actions and shares best practices relating
to social responsibility globally. It is aimed at all
types of organisations regardless of their activity,
size, or location.
The standard was launched in 2010 following five
years of negotiations between many different stakeholders across the globe. Representatives from
government, NGOs, industry, consumer groups and
labour organisations from around the world were
involved in its development, so it represents an international consensus.
iso.org/iso/home/standards/iso26000.htm
b) OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises
The OECD Guidelines are recommended procedures
of the 34 OECD member states as well as ten other
states with internationally active companies. They
are not a reporting standard, but rather a multilateral
agreement signed by the Federal Republic of Germany

that is therefore binding for all German companies,
and specifically for export-oriented companies. As
such, it is possible to lodge a complaint against a
company for violating the OECD Guidelines with the
“National Contact Points (NCPs)” – in Germany this
is the Federal Ministry of Economics and Technology.
The Guidelines refer to principles of public disclosure, the upholding of human rights, the quality
of employment and industrial relations, protection
of the environment, the fight against bribery and
corruption, protection of consumer interests as
well as fair standards in science and technology,
competition and taxation.
oecd.org / daf / inv / mne /
bmwi.de / DE / Themen / Aussenwirtschaft /
nationale-kontaktstelle-oecd-leitsaetze,did=
429920.html

Appendix 3

Appendix 3:
Glossary
Capital market communication

KPI

Umbrella term for all forms of communication used
by the investor relations team of an issuer at a stock
exchange encompassing annual and quarterly reports,
investor presentations, ad hoc news, roadshows etc.
regardless of whether they are required by government
regulation or not. Within the context of this guide the
term relates to non-regulated ESG information.

Key performance indicators help decision makers to
define and measure progress toward business goals.
The purpose is to translate complex measures into a
simple indicator that allows stakeholders to assess
the current performance and conditions.

SRI
Capital market story
Line of argumentation towards (potential) investors,
outlining the reasons for investing in a particular
company from the perspective of the issuer; as “equity story” the term is limited to shares (equities).

ESG
E = environmental; S = social; G = governance –
dimensions of corporate performance that may not
be recognised in standard financial analysis. Though
typically non-financial, the management of ESG
issues does have financial consequences depending
on the quality of their management. The environmental
dimension deals with the judicious use of resources
(e.g. energy, water, raw materials, biodiversity) and
their side effects such as CO 2 emissions. The social
dimension covers aspects such as labour practices
and product responsibility as it affects production
costs, sales and reputation. The governance dimension includes good corporate governance (e.g. compliance, risk management, cooperation between
management and supervisory boards or executive
and non-executive directors).

Socially Responsible Investing / Socially Responsible
Investments, also sometimes “Sustainable & Responsible Investments”. SRI investments have different
concepts, but all examine the ESG performance of
a company in one way or another. The market for
SRI has been growing dynamically in many countries,
particularly in France, Switzerland, the United
Kingdom, Scandinavia and the United States, and
Germany albeit to a lesser extent. There is particular
demand from institutional investors with a longterm focus such as pension funds.

Sustainability
The reconciliation of environmental, social and economic demands in such a way that none of the three
dimensions is achieved to the disadvantage of another.
This equilibrium is designed to create and ensure
long-term prosperity. A business interpretation of the
sustainability concept is the ability to create and maintain growth in the long term by considering environmental and social factors alongside economic ones.

