ESG Reporting Guide

ESG Reporting Guide
Purpose of this Guide
Exchanges can facilitate the information flow, enhance the level of ESG disclosure and
performance and contribute to more sustainable capital markets that are oriented towards
long-term value creation by leveraging their unique positioning as a central point of reference
for companies, investors and regulators.
Through mobilisations like the UN Sustainable Stock Exchanges (SSE) initiative, Exchanges
across the world are joining forces to help companies effectively communicate ESG
information to investors, navigate the regulatory landscape and encourage sustainable
investment in their markets. Exchanges are self-regulating ESG in their markets by offering
guidance and training to issuers, creating listing rules and developing investment products like
indexes and bonds, that reward companies with good ESG performance.
The Athens Stock Exchange joined the SSE initiative in 2018 by making a voluntary public
commitment to promote improved ESG disclosure and performance among listed companies.
Through this Guide, we aim to help pave the path for a more sustainable economy by
empowering issuers to improve their ESG performance and effectively communicate it
with investors.
This Guide is intended to function as a tool
with which companies can identify the ESG issues
they should consider disclosing and managing, on the
basis of their impact on long-term performance.
It also offers practical guidelines on the metrics
companies should use to disclose this information
and communicate it to relevant stakeholders.
10
ESG Reporting Guide
— Increase awareness on the importance of ESG
 transparency and highlight sustainability-related
 opportunities.
— Reduce complexity and the burden of disclosure by
 proposing clear, practical and concrete ESG
 reporting guidelines for companies.
— Support companies and ensure effective ESG
 disclosure by improving the quality, comparability
 and availability of material ESG data through
 the implementation of cutting-edge reporting
 frameworks.
— Enhance trust and confidence in Greek companies.
— Facilitate the information flow between companies,
 investors and other stakeholders.
— Help investors incorporate relevant ESG data in
 their investment decision process.
The ATHEX ESG Guide aims to:
While the primary audience for this document are issuers listed on the Athens Stock Exchange,
it can be a useful tool for companies of all sizes, across all sectors. Companies with a track
record of reporting ESG information can further develop their activities using the best-practices
outlined in this document, and those who are just starting out with non-financial disclosures
can use it to guide their efforts towards ESG transparency and increased accountability on
sustainability matters.
This document is a voluntary reporting Guide. The ESG metrics it proposes are aligned with
the requirements set by the EU’s Non-Financial Directive. Companies for whom non-financial
disclosure is mandatory under the Directive, as well as those who wish to undertake ESG
disclosure on a voluntary basis, can use the Guide as a framework to disclose non-financial
information that in the long-term investors will favour and potentially include in their portfolios.
Who is this Guide for?
11
ESG Reporting Guide
ESG and Capital Markets
The term ESG encompasses the wide set of environmental, social and
corporate governance considerations that can impact a company’s
ability to generate value. In a corporate context, it is used to refer to the
incorporation of non-financial considerations into business strategy and
decision-making. While ESG factors are oftentimes called non-financial,
they are linked to business competitiveness and the way in which a company
manages them has financial consequences.
What is ESG?
Issues related to society, the
rights of individuals and the
well-being of the communities
within which a company
operates
Examples
Labour standards
Health and safety
Workplace diversity
Employee relations
Issues related to a company’s decisionmaking processes, management practices
and corporate governance structure
Examples
Bribery and corruption
Executive pay
Board structure, size and diversity
Internal controls and risk management
Environmental (E) Social (S)
Governance (G)
Issues related to the
environment, living and
non-living natural systems,
including land, air, water
and ecosystems
Examples
Greenhouse gas
(GHG) emissions
Resource use and depletion
Climate change
Waste and pollution
12
ESG Reporting Guide
Investors use ESG information to measure how resilient and well-equipped
a company is to manage changes in the environment in which it operates.
Alongside traditional financial reporting, ESG data can paint a complete picture
of a company, helping investors understand its competitive positioning and the
efficiency with which it can benefit from new opportunities. Beyond satisfying
investor information needs and reducing information asymmetries, ESG disclosure
and effective management can yield significant benefits for companies.
Indicatively it can result in:
Why disclose
ESG information?
Research has shown that firms that
are more transparent and perform
well on material ESG issues have
greater access to capital with a lower
cost11. Transparency on a firm’s ESG
performance and how it relates to
long-term value creation can enhance
a company’s ability to attract longterm investors, especially institutional
investors whose policies mandate the
incorporation of ESG information
into their capital allocation decisions.
Improved access
to capital
Complying with
regulatory changes
The need for enhanced disclosure on
sustainability matters is also driven
by governments, who are increasingly
putting in place different mandatory
requirements for corporate ESG
disclosure, like the European Union’s
Non-Financial Reporting Directive
2014/95/EU. Disclosure requirements
are expected to be supplemented and
expanded in the future12. Companies that
establish clear processes for identifying,
measuring and managing ESG factors
will quickly respond to regulatory
developments, reduce compliance risks
and secure their license to operate within
a changing environment13.
13
ESG Reporting Guide
Disclosing ESG information and
improving performance on material
factors demonstrates a company’s ethical
alignment with international frameworks
like the Sustainable Development Goals
(SDGs), and a commitment to long-term
value creation. Providing information
on material non-financial topics enables
effective communication with both internal
and external stakeholders and offers
opportunities for meaningful engagement
during the reporting process16.
Strengthening
corporate performance
Enhancing corporate
reputation and stakeholder
engagement
Recent research has made a strong
business case for embedding
sustainability into a company’s strategy.
Good performance on material ESG
indicators can generate value for
shareholders and improve long-term
corporate performance. Companies that
exhibit strong performance on material
ESG issues display improved operational
efficiency and perform better than firms
with poor ESG performance in terms of
stock returns and future profitability14 15.
14
ESG Reporting Guide
Investor Relevance
and Materiality
A key consideration in successful ESG reporting is determining the factors that are linked to a
company’s ability to generate value, and are thus material to the business and its stakeholders.
Companies need to identify, prioritise and disclose the ESG issues that are most relevant to them,
and form an understanding of how those issues impact their corporate performance and their ability
to implement their strategy.
According to the International Accounting Standards Board, the concept of materiality is used
to refer to information whose omission or misstatement could influence the economic decisions
of those relying on financial statements17. Different sustainability issues are material for different
companies, depending on their business model, their stakeholders and the industry in which
they operate. To effectively address investor information needs, companies should disclose
their performance on material issues that are likely to impact their financial and operational
performance.
To ensure more comprehensive ESG reporting and help issuers enhance the quality of their
disclosure by focusing on material ESG issues that are relevant to investors, the Athens Stock
Exchange has developed a reporting Guide that includes sector-specific ESG metric structures.
The reporting Guide is based on practices outlined in international sustainability guidelines
like SASB’s industry specific standards and reporting frameworks like GRI, CDP and the Greek
Sustainability Code, as well as existing ESG disclosure practices in the Greek market.
The Athens Stock Exchange Guide classifies topics as likely to be material based on the companies’
industry of operation, in accordance with SASB’s recent guidance. The Guide is intended to
function as a tool to help issuers effectively apply the concept of materiality and gain a clearer
understanding of the material issues in their industry, achieving greater transparency and realizing
benefits from their improved ESG performance.
15
ESG Reporting Guide
There is no single, prescribed method for undertaking
a materiality assessment and choosing
which factors to report on.
The Non-Financial Reporting Directive employs a double perspective of materiality
according to which companies can assess their development, performance, position
and their activities’ external impacts.
Both perspectives overlap, as market transformations and policy reforms can result in a
company’s external impact - positive or negative - translating into a business opportunity
that can be considered financially material.
To understand the extent of
companies’ development,
performance and positioning,
financial materiality is applied.
Financial materiality is utilised
primarily by investors, as it allows
them to assess the scale of a material
issue’s impact on the company.
To understand the companies’
external impacts, environmental and
social materiality is applied.
Environmental and social materiality
is primarily directed towards citizens,
consumers, employees, communities
and civil society organisations, as it
showcases the impact that companies’
activities have on stakeholders,
society and the environment.
16
ESG Reporting Guide
Once a company has determined the ESG factors it should track
and report on, relevant metrics and indicators should be selected to
communicate this information effectively. Where possible, companies
should provide quantitative, comparable and forward-looking
performance metrics to facilitate ESG integration. It is recommended
that companies use credible indicators included in internationally
recognised reporting frameworks like GRI, SASB, CDP or UN Global
Compact18. Companies should disclose their methodology and provide
explanations to support quantitative indicators, establishing the link
between ESG and financial performance.
Companies should ensure that the data they provide is objective and
includes not only indicators on which they perform well. In their
disclosures, reporters should not obscure less favourable information.
Instead, they are encouraged to provide explanation and demonstrate
how they intend to improve and mitigate any negative impacts in the
future.
Companies are advised to report on data covering the whole spectrum
of their operations. Where data is not available, companies must clearly
state which segments of their operations are covered in their disclosures.
Group companies are encouraged to provide data covering the whole
organisation, i.e. both the parent company and its subsidiaries that are
included in the group’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent
documents. If data is not available for all entities, they are advised to
start by reporting data regarding the parent company and proceeding
with any other entity for which data is available. It should be clearly
stated which subsidiaries are included in the reporting scope.
Effective ESG integration must start at the top levels of a company.
Determining material ESG issues that are strategically relevant, and
setting KPIs requires the involvement of the company’s Board and upper
management. Companies should track ESG performance and provide
communication to the board to facilitate effective oversight.
We recommend that annual non-financial disclosures are approved
by the Board.
Data Quality
and Provision
Balance
Scope
Responsibility
and Oversight
Reporting Considerations
17
ESG Reporting Guide
Assurance
Format
and Accessibility
Timing
It is currently not mandatory for companies to obtain external assurance
for their ESG disclosures, however it is recommended that issuers obtain
assurance to ensure the credibility of their reports.
To reach their intended audience, ESG information should be available
through an array of channels, including corporate websites, annual
reports, sustainability reports or other forms of reporting. Companies
can choose to provide this information through:
(a) a standalone sustainability report
(b) disclosure of material ESG factors in its financial reports
(c) an integrated report that focuses on how an organisation creates
value through its strategy, governance and performance.
Companies should disclose their ESG reports on an annual basis within six
months from the end of their annual financial cycle.
18
ESG Reporting Guide
ESG metrics structure
and Guide layout
To foster more responsible and sustainable investments, inclusive, transparent and comparative
ESG information is required. Disclosure of ESG information requires intricate yet clear-cut reporting
practices. Better ESG reporting practices can strengthen capital markets, stimulate growth and
promote sustainability in emerging markets.
We acknowledge that improved ESG performance, results in better stock performance and
credible investor assessments. We also recognise that credible investor assessments can create a
better portfolio for Greek and foreign investors and result in a better and more sustainable Greek
economy. We have therefore created an ESG metric structure that can be used by Greek listed
companies for more comprehensive ESG reporting.
Definition of
economy wide
and sector-specific metrics
The metric structure comprises of economy-wide and sector-specific metrics. Economy wide
metrics are divided into Core and Advanced metrics. Each metric is supplemented with a respective
reporting guide to help companies understand the type of information they need to disclose.
Taking into consideration that companies with strong performance on material ESG topics
outperform companies with poor performance on material topics19, we recognise the importance
of sector-specific reporting metrics. Analysts and investors use sector-specific criteria to evaluate
company portfolios, since different issues are material across different sectors. Therefore, we have
developed sector-specific metrics to help Greek listed companies to understand which issues are
considered strategically important for their sector and that reporting and improving performance
on such issues are likely to result in better financial performance.
The Guide is based on ESG reporting practices outlined in international sustainability guidelines
and standards like SASB’s industry specific standards. We followed a thorough literature review of
existing reporting frameworks (i.e. SASB, GRI, CDP, Greek Sustainability Code etc.) and corporate
reports to tailor the content of the reporting metrics to the capabilities and sustainability
familiarity of Greek companies.
19
ESG Reporting Guide
Economy wide metrics
Core metrics
Metrics that all companies are advised to report on. These metrics were chosen
based on the prevalence of the corresponding ESG issues and their universality of
application.
Advanced metrics
Metrics that focus on advanced ESG performance. This set of metrics has been
constructed to allow high-performing ESG companies to showcase their work
and to establish the emerging topics that companies in Greece should understand,
report and improve in the future.
Sector-specific metrics
Metrics that are specifically created for each of the industry sectors represented in
the Athens Stock Exchange. Sector specific metrics can provide a clear view of the
sustainability risks that companies are prone to, as most material issues differ across
industries and sectors.
20
ESG Reporting Guide
Guide layout
The guides of all three sets of metrics follow a specific layout:
Definition
Formal definition/explanation of the metric.
What to measure?
Metrics are split in qualitative and quantitative. For each type of metric, an outline
of the required information/data for the company to disclose is provided.
Relevant frameworks and standards
As part of the guides’ structure, the relevant frameworks and standards that pertain
to each metric are provided. These act as external sources for companies to refer to,
in case similar information is required for their disclosure practices. The frameworks
and standards that are referenced include: GRI, IIRC, SASB, CDP, TCFD, UN Global
Compact (UNGC), the Greek Sustainability Code (GSC) and the Non-Financial
Reporting Legislation (NFRL).
Sector coverage *
List of sectors the metric applies to.
*applies only for the sector-specific metrics
Metric ID Layout
C- core metrics
A- advanced metrics
SS- sector specific metrics -
21
ESG Reporting Guide
Reporting Guides
Core metrics
The core set, as depicted below, contains metrics that all companies
are advised to report on.
The following pages outline the reporting guides of each core metric.
ESG Classification ID Metric Title
Environmental C-E1 Scope 1 emissions
 C-E2 Scope 2 emissions
 C-E3 Energy consumption within the organisation
Social C-S1 Female employees
 C-S2 Female employees in management positions
 C-S3 Turnover rates
 C-S4 Employee training
 C-S5 Human rights policy
 C-S6 Collective bargaining agreements
 C-S7 Supplier assessment
Governance C-G1 Sustainability oversight
 C-G2 Business ethics policy
 C-G3 Data security policy
22
ESG Reporting Guide
Definition
Indirect GHG emissions (Scope 2) are defined as the GHG emissions that stem from the generation
of purchased electricity20 consumed by the organisation.
What to measure?
Indicator C-E2 requires the reporting organisation to disclose its gross indirect Scope 2
GHG emissions, in tons of CO2
 equivalent.
All GHG emissions covered by the Kyoto Protocol shall be included in Scope 2 emissions. The
organisation should report the emissions from the generation of purchased electricity that is
consumed in its owned or controlled equipment or operations as Scope 2.
The reporting organisation should calculate the gross indirect scope 2 GHG emission using
appropriate standards (e.g. Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate and Accounting Standard).
C-E2: Scope 2 emissions
C-E1: Scope 1 emissions
Definition
Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) are defined as the GHG emissions that stem from
sources that are owned or controlled by the organisation. Scope 1 emissions include on-site fossil
fuel combustion and fleet fuel consumption.
What to measure?
Indicator C-E1 requires the reporting organisation to disclose its gross direct Scope 1 GHG
emissions, in tons of CO2
 equivalent.
All GHG emissions covered by the Kyoto Protocol shall be included in Scope 1 emissions.
The organisation should identify emissions deriving from, but not limited to the following sources:
— Generation of electricity, heating, cooling and steam
— Physical or chemical processing
— Transportation of materials, products, waste, employees and passengers
— Fugitive emissions
Direct CO2
 emissions from the combustion of biomass shall not be included.
The reporting organisation should calculate the Gross Direct Scope 1 GHG emission using
appropriate standards (e.g. Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate and Accounting Standard).
Methodologies, assumptions and calculation tools used in the calculations are expected
to be reported.
Relevant frameworks and standards
GRI 305-1, SASB, CDP C6.1, GSC-13, NFRL
23
ESG Reporting Guide
Definition
The total amount of energy consumed within the organisation is defined as the consumption of
purchased, acquired or self-generated energy from renewable (e.g. wind, solar, hydro, geothermal,
biomass etc.) and non-renewable (e.g. coal, oil, natural gas, electricity, heating, cooling, stream etc.)
energy sources.
What to measure?
Indicator C-E3 requires the reporting organisation to disclose:
— Total amount of energy consumed within the organisation, in MWh
— Percentage of electricity consumed, in percentage (%)
— Percentage of energy consumed from renewable sources, in percentage (%)
The formula for the total energy consumption within an organisation is as follows:
Total energy consumption within the organisation=
 (Non–renewable fuel consumed)
+ (Renewable fuel consumed)
+ (electricity,heating,cooling and steam purchased for consumption)
+ (self–generated electricity,heating,cooling and steam,which are not consumed)
- (electricity,heating,cooling and steam sold)
Methodologies, assumptions and calculation tools used in the calculations are expected
to be reported.
The formula for the percentage of electricity consumed is as follows:
Percentage of electricity consumed=
Electricity purchased for consumption
Total energy consumption within an organisation
C-E3: Energy consumption within the organisation
Methodologies, assumptions and calculation tools used in the calculations are expected
to be reported.
Relevant frameworks and standards
GRI 305-2, SASB, CDP C6.2, GSC-13, NFRL
= x100
24
ESG Reporting Guide
C-S1: Female employees
C-S2: Female employees in management positions
Definition
Number of female employees in the organisation is defined as the total number of female
employees, by headcount.
What to measure?
Indicator C-S1 requires the reporting organisation to disclose the total number of women
employees throughout the organisation, in percentage (%).
This indicator is derived by dividing the total number of women throughout the organisation
with the average total number of employees (male and female) throughout the organisation and
multiplying it by 100 to give the number in a percentage.
Relevant frameworks and standards
GRI 405-1, SASB, GSC-15, NFRL
Definition
Number of female employees in management positions is defined as the number of female
employees who are at the top 10% of employees by total compensation.
What to measure?
Indicator C-S2 requires the reporting organisation to disclose the percentage of women in
managerial positions (i.e. female employees at the top 10% of employees by total compensation),
in percentage (%).
This indicator is derived by dividing the number of female employees at the top 10% of employees
The formula for the percentage of energy consumed from renewable sources is as follows:
Percentage of energy consumed from renewables=
Energy consumed from renewable sources
Total energy consumption within an organisation
Relevant frameworks and standards
GRI 302-1, SASB, CDP C8.2a, GSC-13, NFRL
= x100
25
ESG Reporting Guide
Definition
Turnover rates refer to voluntary and involuntary turnover rates that occur when employees leave
an organisation.
— Voluntary turnover rate is the rate at which employees leave the organisation at their own
 discretion within a time period.
— Involuntary turnover rate is the rate at which an organisation lays-off or discharges employees
 within a time period, due to reasons such as an employee’s poor job performance, inappropriate
 behaviour and violation of workplace policies or an organisation’s decisions to downsize.
What to measure?
Indicator C-S3 requires the reporting organisation to disclose its annual voluntary and involuntary
turnover rate, in percentage (%).
The voluntary turnover rate is calculated by dividing the total amount of voluntary employee exists
within a year with the average number of employees within a year and multiplying it by 100 to give
the number in a percentage.
The involuntary turnover rate is calculated by dividing the total amount of forced employee exists
within a year with the average number of employees within a year and multiplying it by 100 to give
the number in a percentage.
Relevant frameworks and standards
GRI 401-1, SASB, GSC-15, NFRL
C-S3: Turnover rates
by total compensation with the total number of employees at the top 10% of employees by total
compensation and multiplying it by 100 to give the number in a percentage.
Relevant frameworks and standards
GRI 405-1, SASB, GSC-15, NFRL
26
ESG Reporting Guide
C-S4: Employee training
Definition
Employee training is defined as a formal type of programme that aims to increase or enhance the
technical skills, knowledge, efficiency and value creation of an organisation’s employees.
What to measure?
Indicator C-S4 requires the reporting organisation to disclose the average hours
of training that the organisation’s employees have undertaken during the reporting period,
by employee seniority.
Employee seniority is defined by two employee categories, namely:
— Employees in the top 10% of employees by total compensation
— Employees in the bottom 90% of employees by total compensation
The average training hours for the top 10% of employees by total compensation is calculated
by dividing the total number of training hours provided to the top 10% of employees by
total compensation by the total number of employees in the top 10% of employees by total
compensation.
Average training hours (top 10%) =
Total number of training hours provided to each employee in the top 10%
of employees by total compensation
Total number of employees included in the top 10% of employees
 by total compensation
Similarly, the average training hours for the bottom 90% of employees by total compensation
is calculated by dividing the total number of training hours provided to the bottom 90% of
employees by total compensation by the total number of employees in the bottom 90% of
employees by total compensation.
Average training hours (bottom 90%) =
Total number of training hours provided to each employee in the bottom 90%
of employees by total compensation
Total number of employees included in the bottom 90%
of employees by total compensation
27
ESG Reporting Guide
Employee training can refer to:
— all types of vocational training and instructions
— paid educational leave provided by an organisation for its employees
— training or education pursued externally and paid for in whole or in part by an organisation
— training on specific topics
Relevant frameworks and standards
GRI 404-1, SASB, NFRL
C-S5: Human rights policy
Definition
A human rights policy is a piece of formal company documentation that outlines the practices and
commitment that an organisation takes to meet its responsibility to respect the internationally
recognized human rights standards.
What to measure?
Indicator C-S5 requires the reporting organisation to disclose whether it holds a Human rights
policy or not.
The reporting organisation should disclose the international or domestic human rights standards
it recognises and/or commits to (e.g. International bill of rights and ILO’s declaration on the
fundamental principles and rights at work), the organisation’s expectations from its personnel
and business partners and the fundamental principles of the policy concerning its practices and
operations.
Relevant frameworks and standards
GRI 412-1, SASB, UNGC Principles 1 and 2, NFRL
28
ESG Reporting Guide
Definition
Supplier assessment is defined as the process of evaluating supplier performance.
Supplier assessments are carried out on a regular basis, since they can help companies
to reduce costs, improve business performance, alleviate reputational costs and produce more
cost-effective products.
What to measure?
Indicator C-S7 requires the reporting organisation to disclose whether it screens its suppliers using
Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) criteria.
Issues that companies examine when assessing suppliers using ESG criteria include:
Environment
— Management of environmental issues (policy, procedures, management system etc.)
— Greenhouse gases emitted
— Energy and water consumed
— Hazardous and non-hazardous waste generated
— Environmental fines
Social
— Labour standards
— Diversity and equal opportunity
— Occupational health and safety
— Child and forced or compulsory labour
C-S7: Supplier assessment
C-S6: Collective bargaining agreements
Definition
Collective bargaining is defined as the process of negotiation between an employer and a labour
union regarding terms and conditions of employment such as wages, benefits, safe working
conditions and freedom of association.
What to measure?
Indicator C-S6 requires the reporting organisation to disclose the total number of active employees
covered by collective bargaining agreements, in percentage (%).
To calculate the percentage, the total number of active employees covered by collective bargaining
agreement must be divided by the total number of active employees, and multiplied by 100 to give
the number in a percentage.
Relevant frameworks and standards
GRI 407-1, SASB, UNGC Principle 3, NFRL
29
ESG Reporting Guide
C-G1: Sustainability oversight
Governance
— Board composition
— Corporate governance practices
— Code of conduct
Relevant frameworks and standards
GRI 308-2, GRI 414-1, SASB, GSC-17, NFRL
Definition
Sustainability oversight is defined as the procedure where the Board of Directors (BoD) oversees
the organisation’s sustainability issues at the board committee level or where the organisation’s
sustainability is discussed with Management during BoD meetings.
What to measure?
Indicator C-G1 requires the reporting organisation to disclose whether the organisation’s BoD
provides sustainability oversight at the board committee level or whether sustainability is discussed
with Management during BoD meetings or not.
If applicable, the reporting organisation should disclose any sustainability-related targets
established or discussed at BoD meetings.
Relevant frameworks and standards
GRI 102-20, GRI 102-32, SASB, GSC-5
30
ESG Reporting Guide
C-G2: Business ethics policy
Definition
A business ethics policy is a piece of formal company documentation that outlines the practices
and fundamental business ethics principles (e.g. for anti-corruption and anti-bribery) that an
organisation takes and establishes to conduct business in an ethical and honest manner.
What to measure?
Indicator C-G2 requires the reporting organisation to disclose whether the organisation holds a
business ethics policy or not.
The reporting organisation should disclose which international or domestic business ethics laws it
recognizes and/or commits to (e.g. International Anti-Bribery and Fair Competition Act of 1998)
and the fundamental principles of its policy concerning the organisation’s practices and operations,
as well as whether business ethics issues are communicated to employees.
Organisations often integrate their business ethics principles in their corporate code of conduct.
Relevant frameworks and standards
GRI 102-16, GRI 205-1, GRI 205-2, GRI 205-3, SASB, GSC-20, NFRL
C-G3: Data security policy
Definition
A data security policy is a piece of formal company documentation that outlines the practices
and commitments with regards to ensuring the integrity and security of the organisation's and its
customers' data.
What to measure?
Indicator C-G3 requires the reporting organisation to disclose whether it holds a data security
policy or not.
The reporting organisation should disclose which international or domestic data protection
standards it recognises and/or commits to (e.g. GDPR) and the fundamental principles of its policy
concerning its practices and operations, as well as whether the issues of data security are addressed
at the Board level.
Relevant frameworks and standards
GRI 418-1, SASB
31
ESG Reporting Guide
Advanced metrics
ESG Classification ID Metric Title
Environmental A-E1 Scope 3 emissions
 A-E2 Climate change risks and opportunities
Social A-S1 Stakeholder engagement
 A-S2 Employee training expenditure
 A-S3 Gender pay gap
 A-S4 CEO pay ratio
 A-S5 Sustainable product revenue
Governance A-G1 Business model
 A-G2 Materiality
 A-G3 ESG targets
 A-G4 Variable pay
 A-G5 External assurance
The advanced set, as depicted below, contains metrics that focus on
advanced ESG performance.
The following pages outline the reporting guides of each advanced metric.
32
ESG Reporting Guide
 Upstream Downstream
Definition
Indirect GHG emissions (Scope 3) are defined as the GHG emissions that are emitted from nondirect sources, that are not owned or controlled by the organisation. Examples of non-direct
sources, include purchase of goods and services, employee commuting and transportation of
purchased fuels etc.
What to measure?
Indicator A-E1 requires the reporting organisation to disclose its gross indirect Scope 3
GHG emissions, in tons of CO2
 equivalent.
All GHG emissions covered by the Kyoto Protocol shall be included in Scope 3 emissions.
The reporting organisation should calculate the gross indirect Scope 3 GHG emission using
appropriate standards (e.g. Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) Accounting and Reporting Standard)
and provide a breakdown of the emissions as Upstream and Downstream.
The GHG protocol identifies the following Upstream and Downstream categories:
Methodologies, assumptions and calculation tools used in the calculations are expected
to be reported.
Relevant frameworks and standards
GRI 305-3, CDP C6.4a, SASB, GSC-13, NFRL
A-E1: Scope 3 emissions
— Purchased goods and services
— Capital goods
— Fuel- and energy-related activities
 (not included in Scope 1 or Scope 2)
— Upstream transportation
 and distribution
— Waste generated in operations
— Business travel
— Employee commuting
— Upstream leased assets
— Other upstream
— Downstream transportation
 and distribution
— Processing of sold products
— Use of sold products
— End-of-life treatment
 of sold products
— Downstream leased assets
— Franchises
— Investments
— Other downstream
33
ESG Reporting Guide
A-E2: Climate change risks and opportunities
Definition
Climate change risks are uncertain-negative events or market conditions resulting from climate
change that affect an organisation’s financial stability.
Climate change opportunities are forward-looking events or possible efforts that allow companies
to adapt and mitigate climate change.
What to measure?
Indicator A-E2 requires the reporting organisation to discuss any climate change risks
and opportunities that it pertains to.
The organisation should disclose the climate-related risks that TCFD recognizes. TCFD
acknowledges two major climate risk categories, transition and physical risks.
Transition risks relate to the transition of an organisation to a low carbon economy.
 Further transition risks include:
— Policy and legal risks - policy actions (e.g. carbon pricing) that attempt to constrain actions
 that contribute to the adverse effects of climate change or policy actions that seek to promote
 adaptation to climate change.
— Technology risks - technological improvements or innovations that support the transition
 to a lower-carbon, energy efficient economic system can have a significant impact on
 organisations.
— Market risk – shifts in supply and demand.
— Reputational risk.
Physical risks relate to the direct physical damage of an organisation’s assets or the disruption
of its supply chain.
 Further physical risks include:
— Acute risk – increased severity of extreme weather events.
— Chronic risk – longer term shifts in climate patterns, such as increase of temperature.
TCFD recognises five areas of opportunity which an organisation can adopt in its effort to mitigate
and adapt to climate change and at the same time incur potential positive financial impacts.
These areas of opportunity include:
— Resource efficiency
— Energy source
— Products and services
— Markets
— Resilience
Relevant frameworks and standards
GRI 102-15, SASB, CDP C2, TCFD, NFRL
34
ESG Reporting Guide
A-S1: Stakeholder engagement
A-S2: Employee training expenditure
Definition
Stakeholder engagement is defined as the process of communication, consultation and interaction
with stakeholders.
What to measure?
Indicator A-S1 requires the reporting organisation to disclose the organisation’s main stakeholders
and breakdown its key stakeholder engagement practices.
The organisation should disclose:
— the organisation’s identified main stakeholder groups
— the key topics and concerns raised per stakeholder group
— the organisation’s response and actions taken for the issues raised
If applicable, the reporting organisation should include a description of the process undergone to
manage risks and opportunities associated with community rights and interests.
Relevant frameworks and standards
GRI 102-40, GRI 102-41, GRI 102-42, GRI 102-43, GRI 102-44, SASB, GSC-9
Definition
Employee training is defined as a formal type of programme that aims to increase or enhance the
technical skills, knowledge, efficiency and value creation of an organisation’s employees.
What to measure?
Indicator A-S2 requires the reporting organisation to disclose the total amount of expenditure on
employee training purposes, in Euros.
Relevant frameworks and standards
SASB
35
ESG Reporting Guide
A-S3: Gender pay gap
Definition
Gender pay gap is defined as the difference between the average female and male base salary.
What to measure?
Indicator A-S3 requires the reporting organisation to disclose the organisation’s gender pay gap, in
percentage (%).
Initially the reporting organisation should calculate the average yearly pay for both male and
female full-time employees.
The formulas of the average yearly pay for male and female full-time employees are as follows:
Average yearly pay for male full-time employees=
Sum of all yearly base salaries of all male full – time employees (including bonuses)
Total number of male full-time employees
Average yearly pay for female full-time employees=
Sum of all yearly base salaries of all female full – time employees (including bonuses)
Total number of female full-time employees
Hence the formula for the gender pay gap is as follows:
Gender pay gap (%)=
(1) – ( 2)
(1)
This gives you the average gender pay gap in yearly salaries as a percentage of men’s pay.
 A “negative” gender pay gap indicates that women earn more than men.
Relevant frameworks and standards
GRI 405-2, SASB
( 1 )
( 2 )
=
=
= x100
36
ESG Reporting Guide
A-S4: CEO pay ratio
Definition
CEO pay ratio is defined as the difference between a CEO’s annual total compensation to the
organisation’s median employee annual total compensation.
What to measure?
Indicator A-S4 requires the reporting organisation to disclose the ratio of the CEO’s annual total
compensation to the organisation’s median employee annual total compensation,
as a ratio.
The formula to derive the CEO pay ratio is as follows:
CEO pay ratio=
CEO's annual total compansation (1)
Median employee annual total compansation (excluding CEO' s compensation ) (2)
This number should be presented as a ratio as follows:
[(1)/(2)]:1
to demonstrate how many times greater is the CEO’s annual total compensation compared
to the organisation’s median annual total compensation for all employees.
Relevant frameworks and standards
GRI 102-38, SASB
=
Definition
Sustainable product revenue is defined as an organisation’s revenue from sustainable products
and services.
What to measure?
Indicator Α-S5 requires the reporting organisation to disclose its revenue generated from products
and services which have environmental and / or social benefits, in percentage (%).
The organization should elaborate on the products and services it has identified as those with
environmental and / or social benefits. These could include activities that substantially contribute
A-S5: Sustainable product revenue
37
ESG Reporting Guide
to circular economy, achievement of the SDGs, mitigation of or adaptation to climate change etc.
In defining sustainable products and services, organisations may refer to green and sustainability
taxonomies and definitions outlined by institutions, international initiatives and industries, such as
the EU classification system for environmentally sustainable economic activities (EU Taxonomy)
and the Climate Bonds Taxonomy developed by the Climate Bonds Initiative.
The formula for the percentage of sustainable product revenue is as follows:
% of sustainable product revenue=
Revenue generated from sustainable products and services
Total revenue
Relevant frameworks and standards
SASB, TCFD, NFRL
= x100
Definition
Business model is defined as a process implemented by an organisation that describes how it
integrates its vision, strategic objectives, governance and business activities to generate revenue
and make profit.
What to measure?
Indicator A-G1 requires the reporting organisation to disclose its business model as well as its value
creation process.
The reporting organisation should aim to describe its value creation process.
It should demonstrate how its main resources are transformed into the final products or services
that it offers. It should state which are the main business activities that are responsible for the
transformation and subsequent generation of products and services. The reporting organisation
should also state the impact that its business activities have on the economy, society and the
environment as well as how the organisation’s value creation process affects its key stakeholders.
Additionally it is recommended to outline the key aspects that support its value creation process.
Examples include the organisation’s:
Vision: Organisation’s future target
Strategic objectives: Long-term goals designed to achieve the organisation's vision
Governance: Organisation’s main leadership structure
Relevant frameworks and standards
IIRC, NFRL
A-G1: Business model
38
ESG Reporting Guide
A-G2: Materiality
Definition
Materiality assessment is the process by which an organisation identifies the topics that reflect its
significant economic, environmental and social impacts and influence the assessments and decisions
of its stakeholders.
What to measure?
Indicator A-G2 requires the reporting organisation to disclose a description of its materiality
assessment, the steps taken to identify the relevant material topics and how the relative priority of
material topics has been determined.
This process could include:
— The identification process of assessed material topics.
— Description of the methodology assessment carried out by the Management
 of the reporting organisation.
— The methodology assessment carried through the consultation of stakeholders.
— The list of the most material topics of the organisation.
Relevant frameworks and standards
GRI 102-47, SASB, IIRC, GSC-2
A-G3: ESG targets
Definition
ESG targets are defined as short, medium and long-term performance goals established
by a company.
What to measure?
Indicator A-G3 requires the reporting organisation to disclose its short, medium and long-term
performance targets associated with its strategic ESG objectives.
Indicative timeframes for each performance target are:
— Short-term: 1-3 years
— Medium: 4-7 years
— Long-term: 8-10 years
Examples of ESG performance targets include:
Environmental: Increase of energy efficiency by a certain percent
Social: Decrease of voluntary turnover by a certain percent
Governance: Increase of female board members by a certain percent
Relevant frameworks and standards
GRI 102-15, SASB, GSC-3
39
ESG Reporting Guide
A-G5: External assurance
Definition
External assurance is defined as the process where the credibly, accuracy and relevance of the
disclosed information provided by an organisation is examined by a third party.
What to measure?
Indicator A-G5 requires the reporting organisation to verify that the information of each disclosed
core, advanced and sector specific metric, is assured by a third-party assurance body.
Relevant frameworks and standards
GRI 102-56, SASB
A-G4: Variable pay
Definition
Variable pay is defined as the amount of compensation awarded to an employee following the
accomplishment of a specific performance target.
What to measure?
Indicator A-G4 requires the reporting organisation to disclose the percentage of variable pay of the
organisation’s executives’ total remuneration.
The formula for the percentage of variable pay of an organisation’s executive is as follows:
% of variable pay=
Amount of variable pay, in Euros
Total executive's remuneration, in Euros
Example types of variable pay can include bonuses, stock options and restricted stock options.
Relevant frameworks and standards
GRI 102-35
= x100
40
ESG Reporting Guide
Sector-specific metrics
The sector-specific set, as depicted below, includes metrics that are specifically created for
each of the sectors represented in the Athens Stock Exchange.
ESG Classification ID Metric Title
Environmental SS-E1 Emission strategy
 SS-E2 Air pollutant emissions
 SS-E3 Water consumption
 SS-E4 Water management
 SS-E5 Waste management
 SS-E6 Environmental impact of packaging
 SS-E7 Backlog cancellations
 SS-E8 Critical materials
 SS-E9 Chemicals in products
Social SS-S1 Product recalls
 SS-S2 Customer privacy
 SS-S3 Legal requests of user data
 SS-S4 Labour law violations
 SS-S5 Data security and privacy fines
 SS-S6 Health and safety performance
 SS-S7 Marketing practices
 SS-S8 Customer satisfaction
 SS-S9 Customer grievance mechanism
 SS-S10 ESG integration in business activity
Governance SS-G1 Business ethics violations
 SS-G2 Whistleblower policy
The following pages outline the reporting guides of each sector-specific metric.
For an overview of the sectors that each sector-specific metric applies to, please refer to Appendix 3.
41
ESG Reporting Guide
SS-E1: Emission strategy
SS-E2: Air pollutant emissions
Definition
Emission strategy is defined as the formal target plan(s) established by the organisation in relation
to the management, mitigation and performance of its emissions.
What to measure?
Indicator SS-E1 requires the reporting organisation to disclose any long and short-term strategies in
relation to the management, mitigation and performance targets of its emissions.
Relevant frameworks and standards
SASB, CDP C2.1
Sector coverage
Extractives and Minerals Processing, Transportation
Definition
Air pollutants emissions are defined as the total amount of NOx, SOx, volatile organic compounds
(VOCs) and particulate matter ( PM10 ) emitted.
What to measure?
Indicator SS-E2 requires the reporting organisation to disclose the total amount NOx,
SOx, volatile organic compounds and particulate matter 10 micrometers or less in diameter
emitted, in kilograms.
The reporting organisation should calculate the emissions using appropriate standards
(e.g. Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate and Accounting Standard).
Methodologies, assumptions and calculation tools used in the calculations are expected
to be reported.
Relevant frameworks and standards
GRI 305-7, SASB
Sector coverage
Extractives and Minerals Processing, Transportation
42
ESG Reporting Guide
SS-E3: Water consumption
= x100
Definition
Water consumption is defined as the total volume of water used by an organisation and that is not
returned to the original water source after being withdrawn.
What to measure?
Indicator SS-E3 requires the reporting organisation to disclose:
— The total volume of water withdrawn for consumption purposes within the organisation
 by source, in m3
.
— The total volume of water consumed by the organisation, in m3
.
— The total amount of water recycled, in percentage (%).
The water withdrawal sources could be:
— Surface water, including water from wetlands, rivers, lakes, and oceans
— Ground water
— Rainwater collected directly and stored by the organization
— Wastewater from another organization
— Municipal water supplies or other public or private water utilities.
The formula for the total volume of water consumed by the organisation is as follows:
Water Consumption=
Total volume of water withdrawn – Total volume of water discharged
The formula for the percentage of total amount of water recycled is as follows:
% of water recycled=
Total volume of water recycled and reused
Total volume of water withdrawn
Methodologies, assumptions and calculation tools used in the calculations are expected
to be reported.
Relevant frameworks and standards
GRI 303-1, GRI 303-3, SASB, CDP W1.2
Sector coverage
Extractives and Minerals Processing, Food and Beverage
43
ESG Reporting Guide
SS-E4: Water management
SS-E5: Waste management
Definition
Water management is defined as the approach and processes an organisation has adopted to
optimise the use of water and maximise its beneficial use, while at the same time minimise its impact
on biodiversity.
What to measure?
Indicator SS-E4 requires the reporting organisation to disclose its approach to manage water
consumption related risks and the respective mitigation measures taken.
Types of water management risks include:
— Physical: risks associated with the organisation operating in a region of water scarcity,
 of drought or of flooding; risks associated with climate change
— Regulatory: risks associated from the imposition of water policies and regulatory frameworks
— Reputational: risks occurring from organisations actions that result in the damage
 of the organisation’s reputation
Relevant frameworks and standards
SASB, CDP W4.1
Sector coverage
Food and Beverage, Infrastructure
Definition
Waste management is defined as the collection, transportation, disposal or recycling and
monitoring of waste.
What to measure?
Indicator SS-E5 requires the reporting organisation to disclose the total amount of hazardous
and non-hazardous waste generated, in tons, and the percentage of waste by type of treatment,
in percentage (%).
Types of treatment include:
— recycling
— treatment
— landfill
To calculate the percentage, the total amount of waste treated by type must be divided by
the total amount of waste generated.
Relevant frameworks and standards
GRI 306-2, SASB
Sector coverage
Extractives and Minerals Processing, Health Care, Resource Transformation
44
ESG Reporting Guide
SS-E6: Environmental impact of packaging
SS-E7: Backlog cancellations
Definition
Environmental impact of packaging is defined as the impact caused by the disposal of packaging
materials on the environment.
What to measure?
Indicator SS-E6 requires the reporting organisation to disclose its approach in reducing packaging's
environmental impact throughout its lifecycle.
Relevant frameworks and standards
SASB
Sector coverage
Consumer Goods, Food and Beverage
Definition
Backlog cancellations are defined as the amount of the order backlog cancelled, reduced,
terminated, deferred such that it no longer meets the entity’s definition of order backlog and that
have been caused due to reasons associated with community or ecological impacts, including, but
not limited to risks to wildlife, safety of human health or noise emissions.
What to measure?
Indicator SS-E7 requires the reporting organisation to disclose the total number of backlog
cancellations carried out.
Relevant frameworks and standards
SASB
Sector coverage
Renewable Resources and Alternative Energy
45
ESG Reporting Guide
SS-E8: Critical materials
SS-E9: Chemicals in products
2017 Critical Raw Materials
Antimony
Baryte
Beryllium
Bismuth
Borate
Cobalt
Coking coal
Fluorspar
Gallium
Germanium
Hafnium
Helium
HREEs
Indium
LREEs
Magnesium
Natural graphite
Natural rubber
Niobium
PGMs
Phosphate rock
Phosphorus
Scandium
Silicon metal
Tantalum
Tungsten
Vanadium
Definition
Critical materials are defined as substances used that are subject to supply risks, and for which
there are no easy substitutes21.
What to measure?
Indicator SS-E8 requires the reporting organisation to disclose its management
approach in relation to the use of the top 27 recognised critical materials listed by
the European Commission22.
The top 27 critical materials recognised by the European Commission are:
Relevant frameworks and standards
SASB
Sector coverage
Renewable Resources and Alternative Energy, Resource Transformation,
Technology and Communication
Definition
Chemicals in products are defined as distinct artificially prepared compounds that are found in
commercial products.
What to measure?
Indicator SS-E9 requires the reporting organisation to disclose its processes to assess and manage
risks and/or hazards associated with chemicals in products.
Relevant frameworks and standards
SASB
Sector coverage
Consumer Goods
46
ESG Reporting Guide
SS-S2: Customer privacy
SS-S1: Product recalls
Definition
Product recall is the process of reclaiming a product from a customer due to issues of malfunction
and deformity while providing some sort of compensation.
What to measure?
Indicator SS-S1 requires the reporting organisation to disclose the total number
of product recalls issued.
It is strongly suggested that the reporting organisation discloses information on the top three
recall issues that took place in the reporting year.
Relevant frameworks and standards
SASB
Sector coverage
Food and Beverage, Health Care, Resource Transformation
Definition
Customer privacy is defined as the handling and protection of customers’ personal information that
has been provided by them for the purposes of everyday transactions.
What to measure?
Indicator SS-S2 requires the reporting organisation to disclose the total number of users whose
information has been used for secondary purposes23.
According to the European Commission, data can be used for secondary purposes only if the data
has been collected on the basis of legitimate interest, a contract or vital interest and has been
checked that the new purpose is compatible with the original purpose.
Examples of secondary use of data include, but are not limited to:
— selling targeting ads
— improving the entity’s products or service offerings
— transferring data or information to a third-party through sale, rental, or sharing.
Relevant frameworks and standards
GRI 418-1, SASB
Sector coverage
Technology and Communication
47
ESG Reporting Guide
SS-S3: Legal request of user data
SS-S4: Labour law violations
Definition
Legal requests of user data are defined as the action whereby governments or legal enforcement
agencies request user-information from an organisation.
What to measure?
Indicator SS-S3 requires the reporting organisation to disclose:
— the total number of unique requests for user information, including user content and noncontent data, from government or law enforcement agencies.
— total number of unique users whose information was requested by government or law
enforcement agencies.
— the percentage of government and law enforcement requests that resulted in disclosure to the
requesting party, in percentage (%).
To calculate the percentage, the total number of government and law enforcement requests that
resulted in disclosure to the requesting party must be divided by the total number of submitted
government and law enforcement requests.
Relevant frameworks and standards
SASB
Sector coverage
Technology and Communication
Definition
Labour law violations are defined as actions that have or intend to violate working provisions
established by national or international labour standards on topics such as wages, working hours
and overtime.
What to measure?
Indicator SS-S4 requires the reporting organisation to disclose the total amount of monetary losses
as a result of legal proceedings associated with labour law violations, in Euros.
Example of labour law violations include but are not limited to:
— refraining from paying required overtime
— paying sub-minimum wages
— failing to ensure a safe work place according the occupational safety and health act
— failing to cover workers’ injuries.
More information on the labour law violations in relation with the business operations
of the Transportation sector are addressed by the Regulation (EC) No 561/2006.
Relevant frameworks and standards
SASB
Sector coverage
Transportation
48
ESG Reporting Guide
Definition
Health and safety performance is defined as the outcome of an organisation’s approach, systems
and procedures to prevent accidents and injuries in workplaces.
What to measure?
Indicator SS-S6 requires the reporting organisation to disclose the total recordable:
— number of injuries
— number of work-related fatalities
— accident frequency rate
— accident severity rate
The formula for the accident frequency rate is as follows:
Accident frequency rate =
Number of recordable injuries x 200,000*
Number of hours worked by all employees in calender year
The formula for the accident severity rate is as follows:
Accident severity rate=
Number of work days lost due to work-related accidents x 200,000*
Number of hours worked by all employees in calender year
SS-S6: Health and safety performance
SS-S5: Data security and privacy fines
=
=
Definition
Data security and privacy fines are defined as the monetary amounts imposed on organisations due
to the violations of data security and privacy rules enacted by national and international standards.
What to measure?
Indicator SS-S5 requires the reporting organisation to disclose the total amount of monetary losses
as a result of legal proceedings associated with data security and privacy, in Euros.
Relevant frameworks and standards
SASB
Sector coverage
Health Care, Technology and Communication
49
ESG Reporting Guide
SS-S7: Marketing practices
* The factor 200,000 denotes the number of hours worked by 100 full-time employees, 40 hours
per week for 50 weeks per year.
Methodologies, assumptions and calculation tools used in the calculations are expected
to be reported.
Relevant frameworks and standards
GRI 403-2, SASB
Sector coverage
Extractives and Minerals Processing, Infrastructure, Renewable Resources and Alternative Energy,
Resource Transformation
Definition
Marketing practices are defined as the actions carried out by an organisation for the communication
and promotion of the attributes and features of its products and services.
What to measure?
Indicator SS-S7 requires the reporting organisation to disclose its approach in providing transparent
product and service information including marketing and labelling practices.
Financial Sector
Any reporting organisation in the financial sector should clearly discuss its approach in
communicating relevant information about its products and services to its customers as well as any
policies or procedures related to the marketing and communication of its products and services.
Food and Beverage
Any reporting organisation in the food and beverage sector should clearly disclose the following
types of information regarding its products:
— Product component source
— List of product content with a particular focus on substances or components that can
 cause harm either to a customer or to the environment
— Information on the safe use of product
— Correct disposal of product, including clear recycling labelling if applicable.
Relevant frameworks and standards
GRI 417-1, SASB
Sector coverage
Financials, Food and Beverage
50
ESG Reporting Guide
SS-S9: Customer grievance mechanism
SS-S8: Customer satisfaction
Definition
Customer satisfaction is defined as the qualitative measure of satisfaction that customers
attribute to an organisation as a whole or for the quality of their products and services
(category or specific item).
What to measure?
Indicator SS-S8 requires the reporting organisation to disclose the results from its customer
satisfaction surveys.
Customer satisfaction is predominately measured via the use of surveys.
The surveys include, but are not limited to, one-on-one interviews, phone interviews, email or
online questionnaires. The reporting organisation should separately disclose customer satisfaction
results from surveys regarding the organisation’s overall performance and surveys regarding
customers’ satisfaction with the organisation’s particular product or service.
Relevant frameworks and standards
GRI 102-44
Sector coverage
Services
Definition
Customer grievance mechanism is defined as the process whereby customers can formally submit
their complaints, issues or concerns with regards to the behaviour or performance
of an organisation.
What to measure?
Indicator SS-S9 requires the reporting organisation to disclose whether it provides a customer
grievance mechanism and, if yes, the organisation should also provide a description of the key
operations and procedures of the mechanism.
Relevant frameworks and standards
GRI 103-2
Sector coverage
Services
51
ESG Reporting Guide
SS-G1: Business ethics violations
Definition
Business ethics violations are defined as the violations that take place within an organisation
in relation to business ethic issues such as price fixing, anti-competitive behaviour, corruption
and bribery.
What to measure?
Indicator SS-G1 requires the reporting organisation to disclose the total amount of monetary losses
as a result of business ethics violations, in Euros.
Monetary losses from business ethics violations can stem from cartel activities, price fixing, antitrust activities, fraud, insider trading, anti-competitive behaviour, market manipulation, malpractice,
corruption and bribery.
Relevant frameworks and standards
GRI 205-3, GRI 206-1, SASB
Sector coverage
Extractives and Minerals Processing, Financials, Health Care, Infrastructure, Resource
Transformation, Services, Technology and Communication
SS-S10: ESG integration in business activity
Definition
ESG integration is defined as the explicit and systematic inclusion of environmental, social and
governance (ESG) factors in business activity.
What to measure?
Indicator SS-S10 requires the reporting organisation to disclose whether it incorporates ESG
factors into business operations and, if yes, the organisation should also provide a description of
the practices followed for every business activity (e.g. credit analysis, lending, investing, wealth
management, underwriting etc.).
Relevant frameworks and standards
SASB
Sector coverage
Financials
52
ESG Reporting Guide
SS-G2: Whistleblower policy
Definition
Whistleblower policy is defined as the process where a stakeholder of an organisation can report
his/hers concern on a criminal or unethical conduct of the organisation.
What to measure?
Indicator SS-G2 requires the reporting organisation to disclose whether the organisation holds a
whistleblower policy or not.
The reporting organisation should disclose the fundamental principles of its policy concerning
its practices and operations, that include but are not limited to the confidentiality of the
whistleblower’s identity, the protection of the whistleblower against retaliation as well as the
methods for submitting a violation (e.g. email, hotline).
Relevant frameworks and standards
SASB
Sector coverage
Financials
53
ESG Reporting Guide
54
ESG Reporting Guide
Appendix 1:
Economy-wide metrics
Core
The table below depicts the full list of core metrics, together with their metric descriptions, type and unit.
ESG Classification ID Metric Title Metric DescEnvironmental C-E1 Scope 1 emissions Total amount C-E2 Scope 2 emissions Total amount C-E3 Energy consumption Total amount within the organisation Total energy c (2) percentageSocial C-S1 Female employees Percentage of C-S2 Female employees in Percentage of management positions (i.e. top 10% o that are wome C-S3 Turnover rates Full time emp and involunta C-S4 Employee training Average hours employees havby employee s C-S5 Human rights policy Description of and fundamen C-S6 Collective bargaining agreements Total number  by collective b C-S7 Supplier assessment Discussion of  ESG criteria
Governance C-G1 Sustainability oversight Discussion on sustainability level or whethManagement  C-G2 Business ethics policy Description of and fundamen C-G3 Data security policy Description of and fundamen
55
ESG Reporting Guide
ription Type Unit
 of direct emissions (Scope 1) Quantitative Tons CO2
 equivalent
 of indirect emissions (Scope 2) Quantitative Tons CO2
 equivalent
 of energy consumption ((1) Quantitative MWh, percentage (%)
consumed within the organisation,
e of electricity, (3) percentage renewable)
 female employees Quantitative Percentage (%)
 management employees Quantitative Percentage (%)
of employees by total compensation)
en
loyee voluntary Quantitative Percentage (%)
ry turnover rate
s of training that the organisation’s Quantitative Number of hours
ve undertaken during the reporting period,
seniority
f human rights policy Qualitative Discussion and analysis
ntal principles
 of employees covered Quantitative Percentage (%)
bargaining agreements
 supplier screening using Qualitative Discussion and analysis
 whether the BoD provides Qualitative Discussion and analysis
oversight at the board committee
her sustainability is discussed with
during BoD meetings
f business ethics policy Qualitative Discussion and analysis
ntal principles
f data security policy Qualitative Discussion and analysis
ntal principles
56
ESG Reporting Guide
Appendix 1 (continued):
Economy-wide metrics
Advanced
The table below depicts the full list of advanced metrics, together with their metric descriptions,
type and unit.
ESG Classification ID Metric Title Metric DescripEnvironmental A-E1 Scope 3 emissions Total amount of  A-E2 Climate change risks and opportunities Discussion of clim and opportunitieSocial A-S1 Stakeholder engagement Discussion of org and analysis of ke A-S2 Employee training expenditure Total amount of  on employee trai A-S3 Gender pay gap Difference betwe A-S4 CEO pay ratio Ratio of CEO to  A-S5 Sustainable product revenue Percentage of tu products and serGovernance A-G1 Business model Discussion of bus and the creation  A-G2 Materiality Description of th A-G3 ESG targets Disclosure of sho A-G4 Variable pay Percentage of ex A-G5 External assurance Discussion of ext on reported ESG
57
ESG Reporting Guide
tion Type Unit
 other indirect emissions (Scope 3) Quantitative Tons CO2
 equivalent
mate change-related risks Qualitative Discussion and analysis
s that can affect business operations
ganisation's main stakeholders Qualitative Discussion and analysis
ey stakeholder engagement practices
 monetary expenditure Quantitative Euros
ning
een male and female earnings Quantitative Percentage (%)
 median employee earnings Quantitative Ratio
rnover from sustainable Quantitative Percentage (%)
vices
siness model Qualitative Discussion and analysis
 of value
e materiality assessment process Qualitative Discussion and analysis
ort, medium and long-term performance Qualitative Discussion and analysis
ecutive’s salary variable Quantitative Percentage (%)
ternal assurance Qualitative Discussion and analysis
 information
58
ESG Reporting Guide
The table below depicts the full list of
sector-specific metrics, together with their
metric descriptions, type and unit.
Appendix 2:
Sector-specific metrics
ESG Classification ID Metric Title Metric Description Environmental SS-E1 Emission strategy Discussion of long and s the management, mitiga SS-E2 Air pollutant emissions Total amount of: (1) NO (3) volatile organic comand (4) particulate matt SS-E3 Water consumption Total amount of: (1) wa (2) water consumed, (3) SS-E4 Water management Description of water ma and the respective mitig SS-E5 Waste management Total amount of hazard generated and percenta(i.e. (a) recycled, (b) trea SS-E6 Environmental impact Description of strategy  of packaging environmental impact t SS-E7 Backlog cancellations Total number of backlog with community or ecol SS-E8 Critical materials Description of managem to the use of critical ma SS-E9 Chemicals in products Discussion of processes  and/or hazards associateSocial SS-S1 Product recalls Total number of recalls  SS-S2 Customer privacy Number of users whose is used for secondary pu SS-S3 Legal requests Number of: (1) law enfo of user data for user information, (2) was requested and (3) p SS-S4 Labour law violations Total amount of monet proceedings associated  SS-S5 Data security and privacy fines Total amount of monet legal proceedings assoc SS-S6 Health and safety performance Total recordable: (1) num (3) accident frequency r SS-S7 Marketing practices Description of approach product and service infoand labelling practices
 SS-S8 Customer satisfaction Disclosure of customer  SS-S9 Customer grievance mechanism Description of key opera of Customer Grievance  SS-S10 ESG integration in Description of approach business activity factors in business activGovernance SS-G1 Business ethics violations Total amount of monet of business ethics violat SS-G2 Whistleblower policy Description of whistlebl
59
Type Unit
short term strategies in relation to Qualitative Discussion and analysis
ation, performance targets of its emissions
Ox (excluding N2
O),(2) SOx, Quantitative kg
mpounds (VOCs),
ter ( PM10 )
ter withdrawn (by source), Quantitative m3
, percentage (%)
 percentage recycled
anagement risks Qualitative Discussion and analysis
gation measures taken
ous and non-hazardous waste Quantitative Tons, percentage (%)
ge of waste by type of treatment
ated, (c) landfilled)
 for the reduction of packaging's Qualitative Discussion and analysis
hroughout its lifecycle
g cancellations associated Qualitative Number
logical impacts
ment approach in relation
terials Qualitative Discussion and analysis
 to assess and manage risks
ed with chemicals in products Qualitative Discussion and analysis
 issued Quantitative Number
 information Quantitative Number
urposes
orcement requests Quantitative Number, percentage (%)
) users whose information
ercentage resulting in disclosure
ary losses as a result of legal Quantitative Euros
 with labour law violations
ary losses as a result of Quantitative Euros
iated with data security and privacy
mber of injuries, (2) number of fatalities, Quantitative Number
ate, (4) accident severity rate
h in providing transparent Qualitative Discussion and analysis
ormation including marketing
satisfaction survey results Qualitative Discussion and analysis
ations and procedures Qualitative Discussion and analysis
Mechanism
h to incorporation of ESG Qualitative Discussion and analysis
vity
ary losses as a result Quantitative Euros
tions
lower policies and procedures Qualitative Discussion and analysis
60
ESG Reporting Guide
Appendix 3:
Sector-specific metrics map
The table below highlights the sectors that each sector-specific metric applies to.
Environmental SS-E1 Emission strategy
 SS-E2 Air pollutant emissions
SS-E3 Water consumption
SS-E4 Water management
SS-E5 Waste management
SS-E6 Environmental impact of packaging
SS-E7 Backlog cancellations
SS-E8 Critical materials
SS-E9 Chemicals in products
Social SS-S1 Product recalls
 SS-S2 Customer privacy
SS-S3 Legal requests of user data
SS-S4 Labour law violations
SS-S5 Data security and privacy fines
SS-S6 Health and safety performance
SS-S7 Marketing practices
SS-S8 Customer satisfaction
SS-S9 Customer grievance mechanism
SS-S10 ESG integration in business activity
Governance SS-G1 Business ethics violations
 SS-G2 Whistleblower policy
ESG Classification ID Metric Title
Consumer Goods

61
ESG Reporting Guide
Sectors
Extractives
and Minerals Processing
Financials
Food and Beverage
Health Care
Infrastructure
Renewable Resources
and Alternative Energy
Resource Transformation
Services
Technology
and Communication
Transportation
62
ESG Reporting Guide
Appendix 4:
Metric development methodology
Core and Advanced metrics
The Core and Advanced metrics were defined based on the literature review conducted in existing
corporate reports and reporting frameworks, their relative importance to investors, impact on the
economy, society and the environment, as well as their presence in analyst request questionnaires.
With regards to the Core set, the applicability of disclosure for the Greek listed companies was also
considered. The aim was to establish a pool of metrics that all companies can report on, regardless
of their business activity.
On the other hand, the Advanced set is designed to allow leading Greek companies to demonstrate
a broader range of ESG performance features and encourage them to become more transparent
and competitive. This set also presents a future objective for disclosure metrics that all companies
in Greece should understand, report and improve.
Sector-specific metrics
The Sector-specific metrics were developed through a systematic data collection methodology.
Initially, all sector-specific metrics were collected from SASB’s industry-specific guides.
Following the collection, a metric-frequency count was carried out for each of the sectors per
SASB dimension (Environment, Social Capital, Human Capital, Business Model and Innovation,
Leadership and Governance). The metrics that were found to be present more frequently were
short-listed accordingly by sector.
In the assessment it was found that the “Services” sector had no common metrics across its
4 industries. Thus, two additional metrics were devised. These metrics were “SS-S8: Customer
satisfaction” and “SS-S9: Customer grievance mechanism”.
The short-listed metrics were further assessed according to market trends, investor preferences and
existing corporate reporting metrics. The metrics that were found to be transparent, comparable
and consistent across companies within a sector, were short listed for the final list of sector specific
metrics.
63
ESG Reporting Guide
Appendix 5:
Relevant reporting guidelines
This section outlines the international and domestic reporting frameworks and guidelines
that were used to develop the metric content included in the reporting guides. A description
of the frameworks’ and guidelines’ structure is provided, together with a relevant URL that
can be accessed for additional information.
GRI – The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) is one of the most referenced reporting frameworks.
The GRI produces sustainability reporting guidelines, aiming to make sustainability reporting
standard practice, by providing guidance and support to organisations. Organisations use
GRI to publicly disclose their broader economic, environmental and social impacts. The most
revised standards are the “GRI Standards” which were released in October 2016. The standards
are structured as a set of modular interrelated standards, which allows the standards to be
independently updated, without revising the whole set. The GRI Standards are split into a set of
universal and topic-specific standards. There are three universal standards that apply to every
organisation and provide guidance to the reporting companies on how to use the Standards, to
report the relevant contextual information and how to report their approach in managing their
material topics. Similarly, there are three sets of topic specific standards which cover economic,
environmental and social material topics and provide the relevant metric that companies are
advised to disclose. GRI has also developed sector guidance reports that include sector-specific
sustainability issues that are not
covered by the GRI Standards.
For more information: https://www.globalreporting.org/Pages/default.aspx
IIRC – The International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC) is a framework formed by a group of
regulators, investors, companies, standard setters and NGOs, whose mission is to accelerate and
support the evolution of integrated reporting – a novel and advanced type of corporate reporting
whose overarching scope is centered around the concept of value creation and the understanding
of the interdependencies between capitals (financial, manufactured, human, intellectual, natural
and social capital). It has established the core principles and content elements that form the overall
structure of an integrated report.
For more information: http://integratedreporting.org/
SASB – The Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) is a US – based non-profit
organisation that develops sustainability accounting standards. In October 2018 SASB released
a revised set of 77 industry-specific standards that are designed to assist companies in disclosing
financially material, decision-useful sustainability information for/to investors. These industry
specific standards outline the material topics and the pertinent metrics for a company found in the
specified industries.
For more information: https://www.sasb.org/
64
ESG Reporting Guide
CDP – CDP (formerly the Carbon Disclosure Project) is a non-profit organisation representing more
than 800 institutions that use CDP’s disclosures to inform their investment decisions with the goal
of minimizing climate change risk in their portfolios. CDP has 4 reporting categories including
climate change, supply chain, water usage and forestry management disclosures. These disclosures
are a set of questions that companies fill out to describe their activities and contributions towards
alleviating global warming as well as their strategies to mitigate the associated risks.
For more information: https://www.cdp.net/en/info/about-us
TCFD –The Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) is a voluntary, marketdriven initiative which outlines a set of key recommendations that aim to enhance companies’
climate-related disclosure information in their already existing financial and non-financial filings.
These recommendations enable companies to assess key risks and opportunities arising from
climate change. The overarching goal is to urge companies to provide more transparent, reliable
and comparable information that will enable investors and other stakeholders to make betterinformed decisions when interacting with companies.
For more information: https://www.fsb-tcfd.org/
UN Global Compact – The United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) is a United Nations principlebased framework that asks companies to embrace, adopt and accept a set of 10 core principles
pertaining to human rights, labour standards, anti-corruption and the environment. It is currently
the world’s largest corporate social responsibility initiative with around 13,000 corporate
participants and operates more as a channel for facilitating dialogue rather than a regulatory
framework. Companies that ratify have the informal obligation to disseminate the word of the ten
principles through their business activities and accelerate actions for the support of the Sustainable
Development Goals.
For more information: https://www.unglobalcompact.org/what-is-gc/mission/principles
Greek Sustainability Code – The Greek Sustainability Code (GSC) is a national standard that
comprises of 4 themes (strategy, process management, environment, society) and 20 subsequent
criteria. Its scope is to provide guidance to Greek companies on how to incorporate the principles
of sustainable development in their business operations.
For more information: https://greekcode.sustainablegreece2020.com
Non-Financial Report Legislation – The Greek Law no.4548/2018 on non-financial reporting
(NFRL) and the circular No.62784/06-06-2017 of the Ministry of the Economy and Development,
that have been developed according to the provisions of the Directive 2014/95/EU of the European
Parliament, require large companies to disclose specific information regarding the way they operate
and manage environmental and social challenges. More specifically, large undertakings which
are public-interest entities exceeding on their balance sheet dates the criterion of the average
number of 500 employees during the financial year shall include in the management report a
non-financial statement containing information to the extent necessary for an understanding
of the undertaking's development, performance, position and impact of its activity, relating
to, as a minimum, environmental, social and employee matters, respect for human rights, anticorruption and bribery matters. Also, companies with more than 10 employees, a net turnover of
over €700,000 or total assets of over €350,000 must also engage on reporting, particularly on
environmental performance and employee matters.

