A14 – 1
APPENDIX 14
Appendix 14
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE
INTRODUCTION
This Corporate Governance Code sets out: (a) the mandatory requirements for disclosure in an
issuer’s Corporate Governance Report; and (b) the principles of good corporate governance, the
code provisions on a “comply or explain” basis and certain recommended best practices. Issuers
are encouraged to adopt the recommended best practices on a voluntary basis.
Part 1 – Mandatory disclosure requirements
Issuers must include a corporate governance report prepared by the board of directors in their
annual reports and summary financial reports (if any) under paragraphs 34 and 50 of Appendix
16 to the Exchange Listing Rules (“Corporate Governance Report”). The Corporate Governance
Report must contain all the information set out in the section headed “Part 1 – Mandatory
disclosure requirements” below. Any failure to do so will be regarded as a breach of the Exchange
Listing Rules.
To the extent reasonable and appropriate, the Corporate Governance Report included in an
issuer’s summary financial report may be a summary of the Corporate Governance Report
contained in the annual report, and may also incorporate information by reference to its annual
report. The references must be clear and unambiguous, and the summary must not contain only a
cross-reference without any discussion of the matter. The summary must contain, as a minimum,
a narrative statement indicating overall compliance with and highlighting any deviation from the
code provisions set out in the section headed “Part 2 – Principles of good corporate governance,
code provisions and recommended best practices” below.

What is “comply or explain”?
1. Issuers must state whether they have complied with the code provisions for the relevant
accounting period in their annual reports (and summary financial reports, if any) and interim
reports (and summary interim reports, if any).
2. If an issuer considers that it can adopt the Principles without applying the code provisions,
it may deviate from the code provisions (i.e. adopt action(s) or step(s) other than those set
out in the code provisions) provided that the issuer sets out:
(a) in the Corporate Governance Report in the annual reports (and summary financial
reports, if any) the considered reasons for the deviation and explain how good
corporate governance was achieved by means other than strict compliance with the
code provision (the “Considered Reasons and Explanation”). The explanation should
provide a clear rationale for the alternative actions and steps taken by the issuer and
their impacts and outcome; and
(b) in the interim reports (and summary interim reports, if any) either:
(i) the Considered Reasons and Explanation in respect of the deviation, or
(ii) to the extent reasonable and appropriate, by referring to the Corporate
Governance Report in the preceding annual report, and providing details of any
changes for any deviation not reported in that annual report with Considered
Reasons and Explanation. The references must be clear and unambiguous,
and the interim report (or summary interim report) must not contain only a
cross-reference without any discussion of the matter.
The Considered Reasons and Explanation are helpful in fostering an informed, constructive
dialogue between issuers and shareholders with a view to improving corporate
governance continuously. Shareholders are encouraged to engage constructively
and discuss with the issuer any deviation from the code provisions. In evaluating the
Considered Reasons and Explanation given by the issuer, shareholders should pay due
regard to the issuer’s individual circumstances.
3. An issuer would be in breach of the Exchange Listing Rules if it deviates from a code
provision but does not provide Considered Reasons and Explanation in the manner as set
out above.
A14 – 3
Linkage between Corporate Governance and Environmental, Social and Governance
(“ESG”)
Corporate governance provides the framework within which the board forms their decisions and
build their businesses. The entire board should be focusing on creating long-term sustainable
growth for shareholders and delivering long-term values to all stakeholders. An effective corporate
governance structure allows issuers to have a better understanding of, evaluate and manage, risks
and opportunities (including environmental and social risks and opportunities). The ESG Reporting
Guide set out in Appendix 27 to the Exchange Listing Rules provides a framework for issuers
to, among other things, identify and consider what environmental risks and social risks may be
material to them. The board should be responsible for effective governance and oversight of ESG
matters, as well as assessment and management of material environmental and social risks.
Issuers are required to disclose environmental and social matters in ESG reports in accordance
with the ESG Reporting Guide.
A14 – 4
PART 1 – MANDATORY DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS
To provide transparency, issuers must include the following information for the accounting period
covered by the annual report and significant subsequent events for the period up to the date
of publication of the annual report, to the extent possible. Failure to do so will be regarded as a
breach of the Exchange Listing Rules.
A. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE PRACTICES
(a) A narrative statement explaining how the issuer has applied the Principles to enable
shareholders’ evaluation of such application;
(b) a statement as to whether the issuer has complied with the code provisions; and
(c) for any deviation from the code provisions (including adoption of any alternatives
other than the code provisions), details of the deviation during the financial year
(including the Considered Reasons and Explanation).
B. BOARD OF DIRECTORS
(a) Composition of the board, by category of directors, including name of chairman,
executive directors, non-executive directors and independent non-executive
directors;
(b) number of board meetings held during the financial year;
(c) attendance of each director, by name, at the board and general meetings;
Notes: 1 Subject to the issuer’s constitutional documents, and the laws and
regulations of its place of incorporation, attendance by a director at a
meeting by electronic means such as telephonic or video- conferencing
may be counted as physical attendance.
2 If a director is appointed part way during a financial year, the attendance
of such director should be stated by reference to the number of board
meetings held during the director’s tenure.
(d) for each named director, the number of board or committee meetings attended by
the director, and, separately the number of board or committee meetings attended
by the alternate of the director. Attendance at board or committee meetings by an
alternate director should not be counted as attendance by the director;
A14 – 5
(e) a statement of the respective responsibilities, accountabilities and contributions of
the board and management. In particular, a statement of how the board operates,
including a high level statement on the types of decisions taken by the board and
those delegated to management;
(f) details of non-compliance (if any) with rules 3.10(1) and (2), and 3.10A and an
explanation of the remedial steps taken to address non-compliance. This should
cover non-compliance with appointment of a sufficient number of independent
non-executive directors and appointment of an independent non-executive director
with appropriate professional qualifications, or accounting or related financial
management expertise;
(g) reasons why the issuer considers an independent non-executive director to be
independent where such director fails to meet one or more of the guidelines for
assessing independence set out in rule 3.13;
(h) relationship (including financial, business, family or other material/relevant
relationship(s)), if any, between board members and in particular, between the
chairman and the chief executive; and
(i) how each director, by name, complied with code provision C.1.4.
C. CHAIRMAN AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE
The identity of the chairman and chief executive.
D. NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
The term of appointment of non-executive directors.
E. BOARD COMMITTEES
The following information for each of the audit committee, remuneration committee,
nomination committee, risk committee (if any), and corporate governance functions:
(a) the role and function of the committee;
(b) the composition of the committee and whether it comprises independent nonexecutive directors, non-executive directors and executive directors (including their
names and identifying the chairman of the committee);
A14 – 6
(c) the number of meetings held by the committee during the year to discuss matters
and the record of attendance of members, by name, at meetings held during the
year; and
(d) a summary of the work during the year, including:
(i) for the audit committee, a report on how it met its responsibilities in its
review of the quarterly (if relevant), half-yearly and annual results, and unless
expressly addressed by a separate risk committee, or the board itself, its
review of the risk management and internal control systems, the effectiveness
of the issuer’s internal audit function, and its other duties under the Corporate
Governance Code. Details of non-compliance with rule 3.21 (if any) and
an explanation of the remedial steps taken by the issuer to address noncompliance with establishment of an audit committee;
(ii) for the remuneration committee, determining the policy for the remuneration
of executive directors, assessing performance of executive directors and
approving the terms of executive directors’ service contracts, performed
by the remuneration committee. Disclose which of the two models of
remuneration committee described in code provision E.1.2(c) was adopted;
(iii) for the nomination committee, disclosing the policy for the nomination of
directors during the year. This includes the nomination procedures and the
process and criteria adopted by the nomination committee to select and
recommend candidates for directorship during the year;
(iv) for the risk committee (if any), a report on how it met its responsibilities
in its review of the risk management and internal control systems and the
effectiveness of the issuer’s internal audit function; and
(v) for corporate governance, determining the policy for the corporate governance
of the issuer, and duties performed by the board or the committee(s) under
code provision A.2.1.
F. COMPANY SECRETARY
(a) Where an issuer engages an external service provider as its company secretary, its
primary corporate contact person at the issuer (including such person’s name and
position); and
(b) details of non-compliance with rule 3.29.
A14 – 7
G. DIRECTORS’ SECURITIES TRANSACTIONS
For the Model Code set out in Appendix 10 to the Exchange Listing Rules:
(a) whether the issuer has adopted a code of conduct regarding directors’ securities
transactions on terms no less exacting than the required standard set out in the
Model Code;
(b) having made specific enquiry of all directors, whether the directors of the issuer
have complied with, or whether there has been any non-compliance with, the
required standard set out in the Model Code and its code of conduct regarding
directors’ securities transactions; and
(c) for any non-compliance with the required standard set out in the Model Code, if
any, details of these and an explanation of the remedial steps taken by the issuer to
address them.
H. RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL
An issuer who reports in the Corporate Governance Report that it has conducted a review
of the effectiveness of its risk management and internal control systems under code
provision D.2.1 must disclose the following:
(a) whether the issuer has an internal audit function;
(b) how often the risk management and internal control systems are reviewed and the
period covered; and
(c) whether the issuer considers its risk management and internal control systems
effective and adequate.
I. AUDITOR’S REMUNERATION AND AUDITOR RELATED MATTERS
An analysis of remuneration in respect of audit and non-audit services provided by the
auditors (including any entity that is under common control, ownership or management
with the audit firm or any entity that a reasonable and informed third party having
knowledge of all relevant information would reasonably conclude as part of the audit firm
nationally or internationally) to the issuer. The analysis must include, in respect of each
significant non-audit service assignment, details of the nature of the services and the fees
paid.
A14 – 8
J. DIVERSITY
(a) The issuer’s policy on board diversity or a summary of the policy, including any
measurable objectives that it has set for implementing the policy, and progress on
achieving those objectives;
(b) disclose and explain:
(i) how and when gender diversity will be achieved in respect of the board;
(ii) the numerical targets and timelines set for achieving gender diversity on its
board; and
(iii) what measures the issuer has adopted to develop a pipeline of potential
successors to the board to achieve gender diversity.
(c) disclose and explain the gender ratio in the workforce (including senior
management), any plans or measureable objectives the issuer has set for achieving
gender diversity and any mitigating factors or circumstances which make achieving
gender diversity across the workforce (including senior management) more
challenging or less relevant.
Note: In this Corporate Governance Code, “senior management” refers to the
same persons referred to in the issuer’s annual report and required to be
disclosed under paragraph 12 of Appendix 16.
K. SHAREHOLDERS’ RIGHTS
(a) How shareholders can convene an extraordinary general meeting;
(b) the procedures by which enquiries may be put to the board and sufficient contact
details to enable these enquiries to be properly directed; and
(c) the procedures and sufficient contact details for putting forward proposals at
shareholders’ meetings.
A14 – 9
L. INVESTOR RELATIONS
(a) Any significant changes in the issuer’s constitutional documents during the year;
(b) the issuer’s shareholders’ communication policy (or its summary), which should
include channels for shareholders to communicate their views on various matters
affecting the issuer, as well as steps taken to solicit and understand the views of
shareholders and stakeholders; and
(c) a statement of the issuer’s review of the implementation and effectiveness of the
shareholders’ communication policy conducted during the year (including how it
arrives at the conclusion).
