A14 – 1
APPENDIX 14
Appendix 14
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE
INTRODUCTION
This Corporate Governance Code sets out: (a) the mandatory requirements for disclosure in an
issuer’s Corporate Governance Report; and (b) the principles of good corporate governance, the
code provisions on a “comply or explain” basis and certain recommended best practices. Issuers
are encouraged to adopt the recommended best practices on a voluntary basis.

Part 2 – Principles of good corporate governance (“Principles”), code provisions and
recommended best practices
The Principles set the overarching direction to achieving good corporate governance. The code
provisions are aimed to help issuers apply the Principles.
The Exchange does not envisage a “one size fits all” approach, and appreciates that effective
application of the Principles may be achieved by means other than strict compliance with the code
provisions depending on a range of factors, including the issuer’s own individual circumstances,
the size and complexity of its operations and the nature of the risks and challenges it faces.
Issuers are expected to comply with, but may choose to deviate from, the code provisions in
order to achieve the spirit of the Principles.
A14 – 2
The recommended best practices are for guidance only. The voluntary nature of the
recommended best practices does not mean that they are not important, but rather, they are
practices which should be adhered to support issuer’s application of the Principles. Issuers are
encouraged to state whether they have complied with the recommended best practices and give
considered reasons for any deviation.

Linkage between Corporate Governance and Environmental, Social and Governance
(“ESG”)
Corporate governance provides the framework within which the board forms their decisions and
build their businesses. The entire board should be focusing on creating long-term sustainable
growth for shareholders and delivering long-term values to all stakeholders. An effective corporate
governance structure allows issuers to have a better understanding of, evaluate and manage, risks
and opportunities (including environmental and social risks and opportunities). The ESG Reporting
Guide set out in Appendix 27 to the Exchange Listing Rules provides a framework for issuers
to, among other things, identify and consider what environmental risks and social risks may be
material to them. The board should be responsible for effective governance and oversight of ESG
matters, as well as assessment and management of material environmental and social risks.
Issuers are required to disclose environmental and social matters in ESG reports in accordance
with the ESG Reporting Guide.

PART 2 – PRINCIPLES OF GOOD CORPORATE GOVERNANCE,
CODE PROVISIONS AND
RECOMMENDED BEST PRACTICES
A. CORPORATE PURPOSE, STRATEGY AND GOVERNANCE
A.1 Corporate strategy, business model and culture
Principle
An issuer should be headed by an effective board which should assume
responsibility for its leadership and control and be collectively responsible for
promoting its success by directing and supervising its affairs. Directors should take
decisions objectively in the best interests of the issuer.
Code Provisions
A.1.1 The board should establish the issuer’s purpose, values and strategy, and
satisfy itself that these and the issuer’s culture are aligned. All directors must
act with integrity, lead by example, and promote the desired culture. Such
culture should instil and continually reinforce across the organisation values of
acting lawfully, ethically and responsibly.
A.1.2 The directors should include a discussion and analysis of the group’s
performance in the annual report, an explanation of the basis on which the
issuer generates or preserves value over the longer term (the business model)
and the strategy for delivering the issuer’s objectives.
Note: An issuer should have a corporate strategy and a long term business
model. Long term financial performance as opposed to short term
rewards should be a corporate governance objective. An issuer’s board
should not take undue risks to make short term gains at the expense
of long term objectives.
A.2 Corporate Governance Functions
Principle
The board is responsible for performing the corporate governance duties. It may
delegate the responsibility to a committee or committees.
A14 – 11
Code Provisions
A.2.1 The terms of reference of the board (or a committee or committees
performing this function) should include at least:
(a) to develop and review an issuer’s policies and practices on corporate
governance and make recommendations to the board;
(b) to review and monitor the training and continuous professional
development of directors and senior management;
(c) to review and monitor the issuer’s policies and practices on compliance
with legal and regulatory requirements;
(d) to develop, review and monitor the code of conduct and compliance
manual (if any) applicable to employees and directors; and
(e) to review the issuer’s compliance with the Corporate Governance Code
and disclosure in the Corporate Governance Report.
A14 – 12
B. BOARD COMPOSITION AND NOMINATION
B.1 Board composition, succession and evaluation
Principle
The board should have a balance of skills, experience and diversity of perspectives
appropriate to the requirements of the issuer’s business, and should ensure that
the directors devote sufficient time and make contributions to the issuer that are
commensurate with their role and board responsibilities. It should ensure that
changes to its composition can be managed without undue disruption. It should
include a balanced composition of executive and non-executive directors (including
independent non-executive directors) so that there is a strong independent element
on the board, which can effectively exercise independent judgement. Non-executive
directors should be of sufficient calibre and number for their views to carry weight.
Code Provisions
B.1.1 The independent non-executive directors should be identified in all corporate
communications that disclose the names of directors.
B.1.2 An issuer should maintain on its website and on the Exchange’s website an
updated list of its directors identifying their roles and functions and whether
they are independent non-executive directors.
B.1.3 The board should review the implementation and effectiveness of the issuer’s
policy on board diversity on an annual basis.
B.1.4 An issuer should establish mechanism(s) to ensure independent views
and input are available to the board and disclose such mechanism(s) in its
Corporate Governance Report. The board should review the implementation
and effectiveness of such mechanism(s) on an annual basis.
Recommended Best Practices
B.1.5 The board should conduct a regular evaluation of its performance.
B.1.6 The board should state its reasons if it determines that a proposed director
is independent notwithstanding that the individual holds cross-directorships
or has significant links with other directors through involvements in other
companies or bodies.
Note: A cross-directorship exists when two (or more) directors sit on each
other’s boards.
A14 – 13
B.2 Appointments, re-election and removal
Principle
There should be a formal, considered and transparent procedure for the appointment
of new directors. There should be plans in place for orderly succession for
appointments. All directors should be subject to re-election at regular intervals. An
issuer must explain the reasons for the resignation or removal of any director.
Code Provisions
B.2.1 Directors should ensure that they can give sufficient time and attention to the
issuer’s affairs and should not accept the appointment if they cannot do so.
B.2.2 Every director, including those appointed for a specific term, should be subject
to retirement by rotation at least once every three years.
B.2.3 If an independent non-executive director has served more than nine years,
such director’s further appointment should be subject to a separate resolution
to be approved by shareholders. The papers to shareholders accompanying
that resolution should state why the board (or the nomination committee)
believes that the director is still independent and should be re-elected,
including the factors considered, the process and the discussion of the board
(or the nomination committee) in arriving at such determination.
B.2.4 Where all the independent non-executive directors of an issuer have served
more than nine years on the board, the issuer should:
(a) disclose the length of tenure of each existing independent nonexecutive director on a named basis in the circular to shareholders and/
or explanatory statement accompanying the notice of the annual general
meeting; and
(b) appoint a new independent non-executive director on the board at the
forthcoming annual general meeting1
.
1 The appointment of a new independent non-executive director requirement will come into effect for
the financial year commencing on or after 1 January 2023.
A14 – 14
B.3 Nomination Committee
Principle
In carrying out its responsibilities, the nomination committee should give adequate
consideration to the Principles under B.1 and B.2.
Code Provisions
B.3.1 The nomination committee should be established with specific written terms
of reference which deal clearly with its authority and duties. It should perform
the following duties:-
(a) review the structure, size and composition (including the skills,
knowledge and experience) of the board at least annually and
make recommendations on any proposed changes to the board to
complement the issuer’s corporate strategy;
(b) identify individuals suitably qualified to become board members and
select or make recommendations to the board on the selection of
individuals nominated for directorships;
(c) assess the independence of independent non-executive directors; and
(d) make recommendations to the board on the appointment or
reappointment of directors and succession planning for directors, in
particular the chairman and the chief executive.
B.3.2 The nomination committee should make available its terms of reference
explaining its role and the authority delegated to it by the board by including
them on the Exchange’s website and issuer’s website.
B.3.3 Issuers should provide the nomination committee sufficient resources to
perform its duties. Where necessary, the nomination committee should seek
independent professional advice, at the issuer’s expense, to perform its
responsibilities.
B.3.4 Where the board proposes a resolution to elect an individual as an
independent non-executive director at the general meeting, it should set out
in the circular to shareholders and/or explanatory statement accompanying the
notice of the relevant general meeting:
(a) the process used for identifying the individual and why the board
believes the individual should be elected and the reasons why it
considers the individual to be independent;
A14 – 15
(b) if the proposed independent non-executive director will be holding their
seventh (or more) listed company directorship, why the board believes
the individual would still be able to devote sufficient time to the board;
(c) the perspectives, skills and experience that the individual can bring to
the board; and
(d) how the individual contributes to diversity of the board.
C. DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES, DELEGATION AND BOARD PROCEEDINGS
C.1 Responsibilities of directors
Principle
Every director must always know their responsibilities as a director of an issuer and
its conduct, business activities and development. Given the essential unitary nature
of the board, non-executive directors have the same duties of care and skill and
fiduciary duties as executive directors.
Code Provisions
C.1.1 Newly appointed directors of an issuer should receive a comprehensive,
formal and tailored induction on appointment. Subsequently they should
receive any briefing and professional development necessary to ensure that
they have a proper understanding of the issuer’s operations and business
and are fully aware of their responsibilities under statute and common law,
the Exchange Listing Rules, legal and other regulatory requirements and the
issuer’s business and governance policies.
C.1.2 The functions of non-executive directors should include:
(a) participating in board meetings to bring an independent judgement
to bear on issues of strategy, policy, performance, accountability,
resources, key appointments and standards of conduct;
(b) taking the lead where potential conflicts of interests arise;
(c) serving on the audit, remuneration, nomination and other governance
committees, if invited; and
(d) scrutinising the issuer’s performance in achieving agreed corporate
goals and objectives, and monitoring performance reporting.
A14 – 16
C.1.3 The board should establish written guidelines no less exacting than the
Model Code for relevant employees in respect of their dealings in the issuer’s
securities. “Relevant employee” includes any employee or a director or
employee of a subsidiary or holding company who, because of such office or
employment, is likely to possess inside information in relation to the issuer or
its securities.
C.1.4 All directors should participate in continuous professional development to
develop and refresh their knowledge and skills. This is to ensure that their
contribution to the board remains informed and relevant. The issuer should be
responsible for arranging and funding suitable training, placing an appropriate
emphasis on the roles, functions and duties of a listed company director.
Note: Directors should provide a record of the training they received to the
issuer.
C.1.5 Directors should disclose to the issuer at the time of their appointments, and
in a timely manner for any changes, the number and nature of offices held in
public companies or organisations and other significant commitments. The
identity of the public companies or organisations and an indication of the time
involved should also be disclosed. The board should determine for itself how
frequently this disclosure should be made.
C.1.6 Independent non-executive directors and other non-executive directors, as
equal board members, should give the board and any committees on which
they serve the benefit of their skills, expertise and varied backgrounds and
qualifications through regular attendance and active participation. Generally
they should also attend general meetings to gain and develop a balanced
understanding of the views of shareholders.
Note: Non-executive directors’ attendance at general meetings is important.
An independent non-executive director is often the chairman or a
member of board committees and as such, the individual should
be accountable to shareholders by being available to respond to
questions and enquiries in relation to their work. Without attending
general meetings, the director will not be able to develop a balanced
understanding of the views of shareholders.
C.1.7 Independent non-executive directors and other non-executive directors should
make a positive contribution to the development of the issuer’s strategy and
policies through independent, constructive and informed comments.
A14 – 17
C.1.8 An issuer should arrange appropriate insurance cover in respect of legal action
against its directors.
C.2 Chairman and Chief Executive
Principle
There are two key aspects of the management of every issuer – the management
of the board and the day-to-day management of business. There should be a clear
division of these responsibilities to ensure a balance of power and authority, so that
power is not concentrated in any one individual.
Code Provisions
C.2.1 The roles of chairman and chief executive should be separate and should not
be performed by the same individual. The division of responsibilities between
the chairman and chief executive should be clearly established and set out in
writing.
C.2.2 The chairman should ensure that all directors are properly briefed on issues
arising at board meetings.
C.2.3 The chairman should be responsible for ensuring that directors receive, in a
timely manner, adequate information, which must be accurate, clear, complete
and reliable.
C.2.4 One of the important roles of the chairman is to provide leadership for
the board. The chairman should ensure that the board works effectively
and performs its responsibilities, and that all key and appropriate issues
are discussed by it in a timely manner. The chairman should be primarily
responsible for drawing up and approving the agenda for each board meeting.
The chairman should take into account, where appropriate, any matters
proposed by the other directors for inclusion in the agenda. The chairman may
delegate this responsibility to a designated director or the company secretary.
C.2.5 The chairman should take primary responsibility for ensuring that good
corporate governance practices and procedures are established.
C.2.6 The chairman should encourage all directors to make a full and active
contribution to the board’s affairs and take the lead to ensure that it acts in
the best interests of the issuer. The chairman should encourage directors with
different views to voice their concerns, allow sufficient time for discussion of
issues and ensure that board decisions fairly reflect board consensus.
A14 – 18
C.2.7 The chairman should at least annually hold meetings with the independent
non-executive directors without the presence of other directors.
C.2.8 The chairman should ensure that appropriate steps are taken to provide
effective communication with shareholders and that their views are
communicated to the board as a whole.
C.2.9 The chairman should promote a culture of openness and debate by facilitating
the effective contribution of non-executive directors in particular and ensuring
constructive relations between executive and non-executive directors.
C.3 Management functions
Principle
An issuer should have a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved for board
approval. The board should give clear directions to management on the matters that
must be approved by it before decisions are made on the issuer’s behalf.
Code Provisions
C.3.1 When the board delegates aspects of its management and administration
functions to management, it must, at the same time, give clear directions as
to the management’s powers, in particular, where management should report
back and obtain prior board approval before making decisions or entering into
any commitments on the issuer’s behalf.
Note: The board should not delegate matters to a board committee,
executive directors or management to an extent that would
significantly hinder or reduce the ability of the board as a whole to
perform its functions.
C.3.2 An issuer should formalise the functions reserved to the board and those
delegated to management. It should review those arrangements periodically to
ensure that they remain appropriate to the issuer’s needs.
C.3.3 Directors should clearly understand delegation arrangements in place. Issuers
should have formal letters of appointment for directors setting out the key
terms and conditions of their appointment.
A14 – 19
C.4 Board Committees
Principle
Board committees should be formed with specific written terms of reference which
deal clearly with their authority and duties.
Code Provisions
C.4.1 Where board committees are established to deal with matters, the board
should give them sufficiently clear terms of reference to enable them to
perform their functions properly.
C.4.2 The terms of reference of board committees should require them to report
back to the board on their decisions or recommendations, unless there are
legal or regulatory restrictions on their ability to do so (such as a restriction on
disclosure due to regulatory requirements).
C.5 Conduct of board proceedings and supply of and access to information
Principle
The issuer should ensure directors can participate in board proceedings in a
meaningful and effective manner. Directors should be provided in a timely manner
with appropriate information in the form and quality to enable them to make an
informed decision and perform their duties and responsibilities.
Code Provisions
C.5.1 The board should meet regularly and board meetings should be held at least
four times a year at approximately quarterly intervals. It is expected regular
board meetings will normally involve the active participation, either in person
or through electronic means of communication, of a majority of directors
entitled to be present. So, a regular meeting does not include obtaining board
consent through circulating written resolutions.
C.5.2 Arrangements should be in place to ensure that all directors are given an
opportunity to include matters in the agenda for regular board meetings.
C.5.3 Notice of at least 14 days should be given of a regular board meeting to give
all directors an opportunity to attend. For all other board meetings, reasonable
notice should be given.
A14 – 20
C.5.4 Minutes of board meetings and meetings of board committees should be
kept by a duly appointed secretary of the meeting and should be open for
inspection at any reasonable time on reasonable notice by any director.
C.5.5 Minutes of board meetings and meetings of board committees should record
in sufficient detail the matters considered and decisions reached, including
any concerns raised by directors or dissenting views expressed. Draft and
final versions of minutes should be sent to all directors for their comment and
records respectively, within a reasonable time after the board meeting is held.
C.5.6 There should be a procedure agreed by the board to enable directors, upon
reasonable request, to seek independent professional advice in appropriate
circumstances, at the issuer’s expense. The board should resolve to provide
separate independent professional advice to directors to assist them perform
their duties to the issuer.
C.5.7 If a substantial shareholder or a director has a conflict of interest in a matter
to be considered by the board which the board has determined to be material,
the matter should be dealt with by a physical board meeting rather than a
written resolution. Independent non-executive directors who, and whose close
associates, have no material interest in the transaction should be present at
that board meeting.
Note: Subject to the issuer’s constitutional documents, and the laws and
regulations of its place of incorporation, attendance by a director at a
meeting by electronic means such as telephonic or videoconferencing
may be counted as physical attendance.
C.5.8 For regular board meetings, and as far as practicable in all other cases, an
agenda and accompanying board papers should be sent, in full, to all directors.
These should be sent in a timely manner and at least 3 days before the
intended date of a board or board committee meeting (or other agreed period).
C.5.9 Management has an obligation to supply the board and its committees with
adequate information, in a timely manner, to enable it to make informed
decisions. The information supplied must be complete and reliable. To fulfil
their duties properly, directors may not, in all circumstances, be able to rely
purely on information provided voluntarily by management and they may need
to make further enquiries. Where any director requires more information than
is volunteered by management, that director should make further enquiries
where necessary. So, the board and individual directors should have separate
and independent access to the issuer’s senior management.
A14 – 21
C.5.10 All directors are entitled to have access to board papers and related materials.
These papers and related materials should be in a form and quality sufficient
to enable the board to make informed decisions on matters placed before
it. Queries raised by directors should receive a prompt and full response, if
possible.
C.6 Company Secretary
Principle
The company secretary plays an important role in supporting the board by ensuring
good information flow within the board and that board policy and procedures are
followed. The company secretary is responsible for advising the board through the
chairman and/or the chief executive on governance matters and should also facilitate
induction and professional development of directors.
Code Provisions
C.6.1 The company secretary should be an employee of the issuer and have day-today knowledge of the issuer’s affairs. Where an issuer engages an external
service provider as its company secretary, it should disclose the identity of
a person with sufficient seniority (e.g. chief legal counsel or chief financial
officer) at the issuer whom the external provider can contact.
C.6.2 The board should approve the selection, appointment or dismissal of the
company secretary.
Note: A board meeting should be held to discuss the appointment and
dismissal of the company secretary and the matter should be dealt
with by a physical board meeting rather than a written resolution.
C.6.3 The company secretary should report to the board chairman and/or the chief
executive.
C.6.4 All directors should have access to the advice and services of the company
secretary to ensure that board procedures, and all applicable law, rules and
regulations, are followed.
A14 – 22
D. AUDIT, INTERNAL CONTROL AND RISK MANAGEMENT
D.1 Financial reporting
Principle
The board should present a balanced, clear and comprehensible assessment of the
company’s performance, position and prospects.
Code Provisions
D.1.1 Management should provide sufficient explanation and information to the
board to enable it to make an informed assessment of financial and other
information put before it for approval.
D.1.2 Management should provide all members of the board with monthly
updates giving a balanced and understandable assessment of the issuer’s
performance, position and prospects in sufficient detail to enable the board
as a whole and each director to discharge their duties under Rule 3.08 and
Chapter 13.
Note: The information provided may include background or explanatory
information relating to matters to be brought before the board, copies
of disclosure documents, budgets, forecasts and monthly and other
relevant internal financial statements such as monthly management
accounts and management updates. For budgets, any material
variance between the projections and actual results should also be
disclosed and explained.
D.1.3 The directors should acknowledge in the Corporate Governance Report their
responsibility for preparing the accounts. There should be a statement by the
auditors about their reporting responsibilities in the auditors’ report on the
financial statements. Unless it is inappropriate to assume that the company
will continue in business, the directors should prepare the accounts on a going
concern basis, with supporting assumptions or qualifications as necessary.
Where the directors are aware of material uncertainties relating to events or
conditions that may cast significant doubt on the issuer’s ability to continue
as a going concern, they should be clearly and prominently disclosed and
discussed at length in the Corporate Governance Report. The Corporate
Governance Report should contain sufficient information for investors to
understand the severity and significance of matters. To a reasonable and
appropriate extent, the issuer may refer to other parts of the annual report.
These references should be clear and unambiguous, and the Corporate
Governance Report should not contain only a cross-reference without any
discussion of the matter.
A14 – 23
D.1.4 The board should present a balanced, clear and understandable assessment
in annual and interim reports and other financial disclosures required by the
Exchange Listing Rules. It should also do so for reports to regulators and
information disclosed under statutory requirements.
Recommended Best Practices
D.1.5 An issuer should announce and publish quarterly financial results within 45
days after the end of the relevant quarter. These should disclose sufficient
information to enable shareholders to assess the issuer’s performance,
financial position and prospects. An issuer’s quarterly financial results should
be prepared using the accounting policies of its half-year and annual accounts.
D.1.6 Once an issuer announces quarterly financial results, it should continue to do
so for each of the first 3 and 9 months periods of subsequent financial years.
Where it decides not to continuously announce and publish its financial results
for a particular quarter, it should announce the reason(s) for this decision.
D.2 Risk management and internal control
Principle
The board is responsible for evaluating and determining the nature and extent of the
risks it is willing to take in achieving the issuer’s strategic objectives, and ensuring
that the issuer establishes and maintains appropriate and effective risk management
and internal control systems. Such risks would include, amongst others, material
risks relating to ESG (please refer to the ESG Reporting Guide in Appendix 27 to
the Exchange Listing Rules for further information). The board should oversee
management in the design, implementation and monitoring of the risk management
and internal control systems, and management should provide a confirmation to the
board on the effectiveness of these systems.
Code Provisions
D.2.1 The board should oversee the issuer’s risk management and internal control
systems on an ongoing basis, ensure that a review of the effectiveness of the
issuer’s and its subsidiaries’ risk management and internal control systems
has been conducted at least annually and report to shareholders that it has
done so in its Corporate Governance Report. The review should cover all
material controls, including financial, operational and compliance controls.
A14 – 24
D.2.2 The board’s annual review should, in particular, ensure the adequacy of
resources, staff qualifications and experience, training programmes and
budget of the issuer’s accounting, internal audit, financial reporting functions,
as well as those relating to the issuer’s ESG performance and reporting.
D.2.3 The board’s annual review should, in particular, consider:
(a) the changes, since the last annual review, in the nature and extent of
significant risks (including ESG risks), and the issuer’s ability to respond
to changes in its business and the external environment;
(b) the scope and quality of management’s ongoing monitoring of risks
(including ESG risks) and of the internal control systems, and where
applicable, the work of its internal audit function and other assurance
providers;
(c) the extent and frequency of communication of monitoring results to the
board (or board committee(s)) which enables it to assess control of the
issuer and the effectiveness of risk management;
(d) significant control failings or weaknesses that have been identified
during the period. Also, the extent to which they have resulted in
unforeseen outcomes or contingencies that have had, could have had,
or may in the future have, a material impact on the issuer’s financial
performance or condition; and
(e) the effectiveness of the issuer’s processes for financial reporting and
Exchange Listing Rule compliance.
D.2.4 Issuers should disclose, in the Corporate Governance Report, a narrative
statement on how they have complied with the risk management and internal
control code provisions during the reporting period. In particular, they should
disclose:
(a) the process used to identify, evaluate and manage significant risks;
(b) the main features of the risk management and internal control systems;
(c) an acknowledgement by the board that it is responsible for the
risk management and internal control systems and reviewing their
effectiveness. It should also explain that such systems are designed
to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business
objectives, and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance
against material misstatement or loss;
A14 – 25
(d) the process used to review the effectiveness of the risk management
and internal control systems and to resolve material internal control
defects; and
(e) the procedures and internal controls for the handling and dissemination
of inside information.
D.2.5 The issuer should have an internal audit function. Issuers without an internal
audit function should review the need for one on an annual basis and should
disclose the reasons for the absence of such a function in the Corporate
Governance Report.
Notes: 1 An internal audit function generally carries out the analysis and
independent appraisal of the adequacy and effectiveness of the
issuer’s risk management and internal control systems.
2 A group with multiple listed issuers may share group resources to
carry out the internal audit function for members of the group.
D.2.6 The issuer should establish a whistleblowing policy and system for employees
and those who deal with the issuer (e.g. customers and suppliers) to raise
concerns, in confidence and anonymity, with the audit committee (or any
designated committee comprising a majority of independent non-executive
directors) about possible improprieties in any matter related to the issuer.
D.2.7 The issuer should establish policy(ies) and system(s) that promote and support
anti-corruption laws and regulations.
Recommended Best Practices
D.2.8 The board may disclose in the Corporate Governance Report that it has
received a confirmation from management on the effectiveness of the issuer’s
risk management and internal control systems.
D.2.9 The board may disclose in the Corporate Governance Report details of any
significant areas of concern.
A14 – 26
D.3 Audit Committee
Principle
The board should establish formal and transparent arrangements to consider how
it will apply financial reporting, risk management and internal control principles and
maintain an appropriate relationship with the issuer’s auditors. The audit committee
established under the Exchange Listing Rules should have clear terms of reference.
Code Provisions
D.3.1 Full minutes of audit committee meetings should be kept by a duly appointed
secretary of the meeting (who should normally be the company secretary).
Draft and final versions of minutes of the meetings should be sent to all
committee members for their comment and records, within a reasonable time
after the meeting.
D.3.2 A former partner of the issuer’s existing auditing firm should be prohibited
from acting as a member of its audit committee for a period of two years from
the date of the person ceasing:
(a) to be a partner of the firm; or
(b) to have any financial interest in the firm,
whichever is later.
D.3.3 The audit committee’s terms of reference should include at least:-
Relationship with the issuer’s auditors
(a) to be primarily responsible for making recommendations to the board on
the appointment, reappointment and removal of the external auditor, and
to approve the remuneration and terms of engagement of the external
auditor, and any questions of its resignation or dismissal;
(b) to review and monitor the external auditor’s independence and
objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit process in accordance
with applicable standards. The audit committee should discuss with
the auditor the nature and scope of the audit and reporting obligations
before the audit commences;
A14 – 27
(c) to develop and implement policy on engaging an external auditor to
supply non-audit services. For this purpose, “external auditor” includes
any entity that is under common control, ownership or management
with the audit firm or any entity that a reasonable and informed third
party knowing all relevant information would reasonably conclude to be
part of the audit firm nationally or internationally. The audit committee
should report to the board, identifying and making recommendations on
any matters where action or improvement is needed;
Review of the issuer’s financial information
(d) to monitor integrity of the issuer’s financial statements and annual report
and accounts, half-year report and, if prepared for publication, quarterly
reports, and to review significant financial reporting judgements
contained in them. In reviewing these reports before submission to the
board, the committee should focus particularly on:-
(i) any changes in accounting policies and practices;
(ii) major judgmental areas;
(iii) significant adjustments resulting from audit;
(iv) the going concern assumptions and any qualifications;
(v) compliance with accounting standards; and
(vi) compliance with the Exchange Listing Rules and legal
requirements in relation to financial reporting;
(e) Regarding (d) above:-
(i) members of the committee should liaise with the board and senior
management and the committee must meet, at least twice a year,
with the issuer’s auditors; and
(ii) the committee should consider any significant or unusual items
that are, or may need to be, reflected in the report and accounts,
it should give due consideration to any matters that have been
raised by the issuer’s staff responsible for the accounting and
financial reporting function, compliance officer or auditors;
A14 – 28
Oversight of the issuer’s financial reporting system, risk management and
internal control systems
(f) to review the issuer’s financial controls, and unless expressly addressed
by a separate board risk committee, or by the board itself, to review the
issuer’s risk management and internal control systems;
(g) to discuss the risk management and internal control systems with
management to ensure that management has performed its duty to
have effective systems. This discussion should include the adequacy of
resources, staff qualifications and experience, training programmes and
budget of the issuer’s accounting and financial reporting function;
(h) to consider major investigation findings on risk management and internal
control matters as delegated by the board or on its own initiative and
management’s response to these findings;
(i) where an internal audit function exists, to ensure co-ordination between
the internal and external auditors, and to ensure that the internal audit
function is adequately resourced and has appropriate standing within the
issuer, and to review and monitor its effectiveness;
(j) to review the group’s financial and accounting policies and practices;
(k) to review the external auditor’s management letter, any material queries
raised by the auditor to management about accounting records, financial
accounts or systems of control and management’s response;
(l) to ensure that the board will provide a timely response to the issues
raised in the external auditor’s management letter;
(m) to report to the board on the matters in this code provision; and
(n) to consider other topics, as defined by the board.
D.3.4 The audit committee should make available its terms of reference, explaining
its role and the authority delegated to it by the board by including them on the
Exchange’s website and the issuer’s website.
D.3.5 Where the board disagrees with the audit committee’s view on the selection,
appointment, resignation or dismissal of the external auditors, the issuer
should include in the Corporate Governance Report a statement from the audit
committee explaining its recommendation and also the reason(s) why the
board has taken a different view.
A14 – 29
D.3.6 The audit committee should be provided with sufficient resources to perform
its duties.
D.3.7 The terms of reference of the audit committee should also require it:
(a) to review arrangements employees of the issuer can use, in confidence,
to raise concerns about possible improprieties in financial reporting,
internal control or other matters. The audit committee should ensure
that proper arrangements are in place for fair and independent
investigation of these matters and for appropriate follow-up action; and
(b) to act as the key representative body for overseeing the issuer’s
relations with the external auditor.
E. REMUNERATION
E.1 The level and make-up of remuneration and disclosure
Principle
An issuer should have a formal and transparent policy on directors’ remuneration and
other remuneration related matters. The procedure for setting policy on executive
directors’ remuneration and all directors’ remuneration packages should be formal
and transparent. Remuneration levels should be sufficient to attract and retain
directors to run the company successfully without paying more than necessary. No
director should be involved in deciding that director’s own remuneration.
Code Provisions
E.1.1 The remuneration committee should consult the chairman and/or chief
executive about their remuneration proposals for other executive directors.
The remuneration committee should have access to independent professional
advice if necessary.
E.1.2 The remuneration committee’s terms of reference should include, as a
minimum:-
(a) to make recommendations to the board on the issuer’s policy and
structure for all directors’ and senior management remuneration and on
the establishment of a formal and transparent procedure for developing
remuneration policy;
(b) to review and approve the management’s remuneration proposals with
reference to the board’s corporate goals and objectives;
A14 – 30
(c) either:
(i) to determine, with delegated responsibility, the remuneration
packages of individual executive directors and senior
management; or
(ii) to make recommendations to the board on the remuneration
packages of individual executive directors and senior
management.
This should include benefits in kind, pension rights and compensation
payments, including any compensation payable for loss or termination of
their office or appointment;
(d) to make recommendations to the board on the remuneration of nonexecutive directors;
(e) to consider salaries paid by comparable companies, time commitment
and responsibilities and employment conditions elsewhere in the group;
(f) to review and approve compensation payable to executive directors and
senior management for any loss or termination of office or appointment
to ensure that it is consistent with contractual terms and is otherwise
fair and not excessive;
(g) to review and approve compensation arrangements relating to dismissal
or removal of directors for misconduct to ensure that they are consistent
with contractual terms and are otherwise reasonable and appropriate;
and
(h) to ensure that no director or any of their associates is involved in
deciding that director’s own remuneration.
E.1.3 The remuneration committee should make available its terms of reference,
explaining its role and the authority delegated to it by the board by including
them on the Exchange’s website and the issuer’s website.
E.1.4 The remuneration committee should be provided with sufficient resources to
perform its duties.
E.1.5 Issuers should disclose the directors’ remuneration policy, details of any
remuneration payable to members of senior management by band and other
remuneration related matters in their annual reports.
A14 – 31
Recommended Best Practices
E.1.6 If E.1.2(c)(ii) is adopted, where the board resolves to approve any
remuneration or compensation arrangements with which the remuneration
committee disagrees, the board should disclose the reasons for its resolution
in its next Corporate Governance Report.
E.1.7 A significant proportion of executive directors’ remuneration should link
rewards to corporate and individual performance.
E.1.8 Issuers should disclose details of any remuneration payable to members of
senior management, on an individual and named basis, in their annual reports.
E.1.9 Issuers generally should not grant equity-based remuneration (e.g. share
options or grants) with performance-related elements to independent nonexecutive directors as this may lead to bias in their decision-making and
compromise their objectivity and independence.
F. SHAREHOLDERS ENGAGEMENT
F.1 Effective communication
Principle
The board should be responsible for maintaining an on-going dialogue with
shareholders and in particular, use annual general meetings or other general
meetings to communicate with them and encourage their participation.
Code Provisions
F.1.1 The issuer should have a policy on payment of dividends and should disclose it
in the annual report.
Recommended Best Practices
F.1.2 Issuers are encouraged to include the following information in their Corporate
Governance Report:
(a) details of shareholders by type and aggregate shareholding;
(b) indication of important shareholders’ dates in the coming financial year;
A14 – 32
(c) the percentage of public float, based on information that is publicly
available to the issuer and within the knowledge of its directors as at the
latest practicable date prior to the issue of the annual report; and
(d) the number of shares held by each of the senior management.
F.2 Shareholders meetings
Principle
The issuer should ensure that shareholders are given sufficient notice of
shareholders meetings and are familiar with the detailed procedures for conducting a
poll, and should arrange to address questions from shareholders in the shareholders
meetings.
Code Provisions
F.2.1 For each substantially separate issue at a general meeting, a separate
resolution should be proposed by the chairman of that meeting. Issuers
should avoid “bundling” resolutions unless they are interdependent and linked
forming one significant proposal. Where the resolutions are “bundled”, issuers
should explain the reasons and material implications in the notice of meeting.
Note: An example of a substantially separate issue is the nomination of
persons as directors. Accordingly, each person should be nominated
by means of a separate resolution.
F.2.2 The chairman of the board should attend the annual general meeting.
The chairman of the board should also invite the chairmen of the audit,
remuneration, nomination and any other committees (as appropriate) to
attend. In their absence, the chairman should invite another member of the
committee or failing this their duly appointed delegate, to attend. These
persons should be available to answer questions at the annual general
meeting. The chairman of the independent board committee (if any) should
also be available to answer questions at any general meeting to approve a
connected transaction or any other transaction that requires independent
shareholders’ approval. An issuer’s management should ensure the external
auditor attend the annual general meeting to answer questions about the
conduct of the audit, the preparation and content of the auditors’ report, the
accounting policies and auditor independence.
Note: Subject to the issuer’s constitutional documents, and the laws and
regulations of its place of incorporation, attendance by the above
persons at a meeting by electronic means such as telephonic or
videoconferencing may be counted as physical attendance.
A14 – 33
F.2.3 The chairman of a meeting should ensure that an explanation is provided of
the detailed procedures for conducting a poll and answer any questions from
shareholders on voting by poll.