ESG
Reporting Guide
for Issuers of the Budapest Stock Exchange
’For most of history, man has had to
fight nature to survive; in this century
he is beginning to realize that, in order
to survive, he must protect it.’
Jacques-Yves Cousteau
2 ESG Reporting Guide for Issuers of the Budapest Stock Exchange 1
Leaders, governments and organizations around the world are recognising that the time to take
action for a sustainable future is now. Setting sustainable development goals is at the core of
strategic planning, taking actions to confront global challenges such as climate change, other
natural disasters, poverty, biodiversity loss, overpopulation, infectious diseases, to mention only a
few, has never been more critical than at this present time.
The financial sector has a key role in the global
economic sustainability action plan and so do capital
markets and their flagship institutions: the stock
exchanges. Together with the financial industry,
exchanges around the world promote sustainable
finance, the incorporation of environmental, social
and governance (ESG) factors into investment
decision-making, and the allocation of capital towards
sustainable assets.
The Budapest Stock Exchange is no different from its
peers in that regard. In 2018, BSE joined the United
Nations Sustainable Stock Exchanges initiative
declaring its commitment to meet the UN Sustainable
Development Goals (SDGs) by 2030. In addition, we
work closely with the Federation of European Securities
Exchanges (FESE) in its Sustainable Finance Task Force
and pay intense attention to the parallel efforts of the
World Federation of Exchanges (WFE). BSE defined its
most important focus areas as follows:
• improve the sustainability reporting and ESG data
sharing of listed companies
• draw investor attention to sustainable and green
instruments listed on the exchange
• develop marketplace for the new, ESG compliant and
green investment products
The ways stock exchanges can influence these areas
can be numerous. First and most, it is imperative to
include ESG principles into their own strategies to act
as role models for listed companies. Further, exchanges
should take part in creating a supporting regulatory
environment to build an adequate European and
domestic regulatory framework and adopt and apply
their own stock exchange rules supplementing these
rules of law.
Exchanges also play an important role in education,
and they may become think tanks, information hubs of
ESG-related topics and concentrate as much attention
to them as possible. BSE is organising expert events,
conferences, educational events to spread the notion of
sustainability to as broad a public as possible.
ESG awareness can further be improved by product
developments (dedicated market segments, promoting
green investment products, etc.) and by guiding
listed issuers in their efforts to develop their ESG
reporting routines and provide the market with quality
information. The latter is the purpose of this present
Guide.
Richárd Végh
CEO
Budapest Stock Exchange
Foreword
2 ESG Reporting Guide
for Issuers of the Budapest Stock Exchange 3
Table of Contents
Foreword 1
Introduction 5
What is the purpose of this guide? 6
What is ESG? 9
What are the benefits of ESG reporting for issuers? 10
ESG and corporate governance reporting 13
Stakeholders and Materiality of Reporting 15
Stakeholders 16
Materiality 19
Content, Quality, Format and Frequency of Reporting 23
Content of reporting 24
Quality of reporting 25
Reporting format and disclosure channels 27
Roadmap of reporting 28
Building reporting capacity 28
Advancing reporting capabilities 29
Reporting frequency 29
Regulatory and Policy Landscape 31
Background 32
Introduction to ESG Reporting Standards 37
Global reporting standards to start with 38
Issue specific global disclosure and target setting schemes 39
Integrated reporting to enhance transparency and address interconnectivity 39
ESG Data from Collection to Issuer Ratings 41
Main ESG rating agencies 42
BSE Recommendations 45
Annex 51
Disclaimer 54
Introduction
Page 5
Introduction to
ESG Reporting
Standards
Page 37
Stakeholders
and Materiality
of Reporting
Page 15
ESG Data from
Collection to
Issuer Ratings
Page 41
Content,
Quality, Format
and Frequency
of Reporting
Page 23
BSE
Recommendations
Page 45
Regulatory
and Policy
Landscape
Page 31
Annex
Page 51
1
5
2
6
3
7
4
8
4 ESG Reporting Guide for Issuers of the Budapest Stock Exchange 5
Introduction
6 ESG Reporting Guide for Issuers of the Budapest Stock Exchange 7
What is the purpose of this guide?
The global environmental and social challenges the world is facing are now clearly apparent
for governments, corporates, and households as well. Investors and analysts on capital markets
expand their corporate valuation models currently in use involving sustainability criteria,
recognising the fact that in successful long-term investments investor focus must go beyond mere
financial profit maximalization. Investors expect companies to adjust their long-term strategies to
include ESG principles and to follow up their adherence thereto in a transparent way. Therefore,
public companies increasingly feel the pressure to disclose more and more non-financial,
sustainability-related information to satisfy investors’ expectations.
On the other hand, the regulatory framework that
will drive Europe to a more resilient and sustainable
future economy is forming just now. As for the
reporting requirements, some disclosure obligations
are already in place (e.g. The Non-Financial Reporting
Directive1 (NFRD), The Sustainable Finance
Disclosure Regulation2 (SFDR) – to be discussed in
the Regulatory and Policy Landscape Chapter), with
the bulk of the regulations, technical standards in the
pipeline, expected to come into force in the upcoming
years.
The Non-Financial Reporting Directive, which came
into effect on January 1, 2017, already requires ESG
related matters (such as employment, board diversity,
human rights, anti-corruption and bribery issues) to be
disclosed by specified large corporates, including banks
and insurance companies. The Directive is currently
under review as part of the European Green Deal3, so
further alignments, standardizations and improvements
to the reporting process can be expected, which will be
most likely manifested in more stringent transparency
obligations (see the Regulatory and Policy Landscape
Chapter for further information).
ESG reporting from investee companies is at the core of
all ESG transparency efforts, ratings and ESG disclosures
of financial market participants addressed in the SFDR
build substantially on this information, and investors
seeking out green investment targets also rely on these
reports. But unfortunately, as the Green Finance Report
issued by the Central Bank of Hungary in 20214 points
out, only a few Hungarian companies, institutions
provide adequate ESG data even among the exchangelisted
companies, and the extent and quality of these
reports deviate greatly. Reporting forms and chosen
standards (if any) also vary. Some of our issuers prepare
high-level, integrated or stand-alone sustainability
reports, but many are not aware of the importance of
this matter and lag behind.
This Guide has been issued to help BSE-listed
companies to have a basic understanding of
• the ESG approach in general
• the importance of ESG reporting
• the basic terms, actors and
processes involved
• the roadmap that leads to
the implementation of a stable
reporting regime
It is also important to underline
that – especially with the regulatory
environment so hectically evolving
– this Guide cannot give answers
to all the outstanding questions
regarding sustainability reporting,
nor can it provide a complete list
of the multifaceted ESG rules and
regulations at this moment. Moreover, our focus is on
reporting duties and improved transparency, so certain
ESG aspects – such as for instance sustainability risk
management – will not be discussed herein.
It is also not possible within the scope of this document
to outline a detailed overview of the various ESG
standards and recommend the use of one over another,
as these should be tailored to individual issuer needs
and goals.
This Guide tries to set some minimum expectations,
recommendations to help BSE-listed issuers get
started with their ESG reporting routine. It is our
strong intention to regularly update it as needed,
incorporating future regulatory changes, experience
and feedback from market participants. We hope it
shall pave the road to a more transparent and more
sustainable operation for our issuers and maybe also
those who are contemplating going public and getting
stock exchange listed in the near future.
Introduction
1 EUR-Lex - 32014L0095 - EN - EUR-Lex (europa.eu)
2 https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX:02019R2088-20200712
3 A European Green Deal | European Commission (europa.eu)
4 Green Finance Report, March 2021 (mnb.hu)
“Our transformation to a carbon-neutral
economy means that people need more
information from the companies they are
investing in. As things stand today, there is
currently a sustainability reporting gap that
is hampering progress towards a sustainable
financial system. The needs of investors for
corporate sustainability information are
growing faster than any improvements in
company reporting. So we welcome all views
on how best to improve this Directive.”
EC vice-president Valdis Dombrovskis
Investors, financial market
participants
need for green products and
sustainability-related information
Investee companies
issuers
Intensifying
ESG regulations
EU and HU
8 ESG Reporting Guide for Issuers of the Budapest Stock Exchange 9
What you will learn from this document What is ESG?
Sustainability and ESG are often used as synonyms. In a strict sense, sustainability refers to
processes or practices which have a positive – or at least neutral – environmental impact, but in a
broader sense it also extends to certain social issues as well as corporate governance practices.
Basic information on ESG reporting
• What does ESG mean?
• Why is it important?
• Are there any benefits of ESG reporting for issuers?
How to prepare your organization for reporting
• Content, quality and reporting format to be followed
• Disclosure channels to use
• How to build and advance your reporting capacities
Reporting standards and rating
• What are the most popular reporting standards to choose from?
• Why follow a reporting standard and how to find the best fit?
• Why is rating important?
BSE recommendations
• Non-binding minimum reporting practices suggested by BSE
• Suggested gradual development levels from basic to advanced issuer reporting
Regulatory aspects
• What are the most important rules of law regulating this area?
• What further measures are expected?
Getting started
• Identifying stakeholders of the company and their preferences
• Material information that sustainability reporting should cover
The acronym ESG comprises the
following abbreviations:
• ‘E’ stands for the environmental criteria,
such as climate change, pollution, resource
scarcity, energy consumption, waste release,
greenhouse gas emission, biodiversity loss,
etc.
• ‘S’ stands for the social facet, demonstrating
the connection between business and
society, highlighting the ways a company
influences the life of its employees and
the surrounding local communities. Issues
related to public health, education, equality
and diversity, health and safety, community
support are among the most important
aspects.
• Finally, ‘G’ gives the aspect of corporate
governance covering a broad range of
corporate activities including board and
management structures, corporate culture,
information disclosure, auditing and
compliance, remuneration, to mention only
a few.
In the EU regulatory framework, the two
terms (sustainability and ESG) are used quite
interchangeably.
Some similar definitions are also in use,
such as SRI and CSR.
• Sustainable & Responsible Investment
(SRI) defines investments in general which
take into account sustainability factors
(environmental, social, economic, ethical,
etc.) in the selection and retention of
investments. The investment is considered
“socially responsible” due to the nature of the
business the company conducts.
• Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) is a
term used by the companies to describe
their interactions with society and the
environment. It mostly refers to a business
model, which enables the company to
operate in a way that protects and enriches
society and environment.
10 ESG Reporting Guide for Issuers of the Budapest Stock Exchange 11
What are the benefits of ESG reporting for issuers?
The growing demand for socially responsible investments and the tightening regulatory
environment undoubtedly presents a great challenge for companies, especially for SME issuers
with more modest organizational capacities. On the other hand, sustainability reporting may bring
new opportunities and significant benefits to corporates.
Source: UN PRI
1. Financing benefits – better access to capital
Better valuation from investors, enhanced
performance in financial markets,
Providing ESG data to the investors improves the
company’s transparency. Improved transparency
lowers portfolio risks, resulting in better valuation
for the enterprise, and in the long run, better stock
performance in the market. Higher valuation due to ESG
factors not only impacts equities but also other asset
classes, especially corporate bonds.
Certain ESG Reporting Standards, inter alia SASB and
CDP were developed with the information needs of
investors in mind. The standards contain the specific ESG
issues that potentially impact the financial performance
of the companies, enabling the disclosures to support
the decision-making of investors in particular.
Attracting new types of investors
In addition to achieving better transparency and thus
better valuation, ESG reporting enables the company
to attract a new type of long-term investors: the
responsible investor. There is a noticeable shift in the
focus of institutional investing towards environmental
and social issues. The United Nations Principles for
Responsible Investment (PRI) were launched in April
2006 at the New York Stock Exchange. The PRI has
grown consistently since its beginning, the six below
principles of ESG compliant investments during the
investment procedure is voluntary for institutional
investors to follow:
1) Incorporate ESG issues into the investment analysis
and decision-making process
2) Incorporate ESG issues in ownership policies and
practices
3) Seek appropriate ESG disclosure from companies
4) Promote the principles within the industry
5) Work together to enhance the implementation of the
principles
6) Report on the activities and the progress regarding
the implementation of the principles
The number of signatories has grown from 100 to over
3000 since the launch of PRI and doubled in the past
four years increasing exponentially, indicating serious
investor commitment.
2. Operational benefits
ESG disclosure requires data gathering in various areas,
often beyond the generally monitored performance
indicators. This data gathering, the following data and
risk analysis and eventually year-on-year monitoring
and competitor comparability enables the company to
realise operational benefits.
Better understanding of the current operational risks
means more efficient business. Considering ESG issues
during the operation reduces risk factors not only for
investors, but also for a number of other stakeholders:
regulators, employees, local communities, etc.
0
250
500
750
1000
1250
1500
1750
2000
2250
2500
2750
3000
3250
0
20
40
60
80
100
120
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020
Assets under management (US$ trillion) AO AUM ($ US trillion) Number of AOs Number of Signatories
Assets under management (US$ trillion) Nº Signatories
Investors, FMPs Issuers Regulations
Financial benefits Operational
benefits
Business
opportunities
Advanced
communication
and reputation
Other potential
benefits
• More diverse
investor base,
possibly lower
cost of capital
• New types
of financing
alternatives,
issuance of green
products
• Improved,
long-term risk
management
• Better
understanding of
own organization
• More informed
decision-making
and strategic
planning
• Investments in
green products
• Opportunities
in sustainable
finance or
business
development
goals
• ESG approach
helps
communication
and cooperation
with stakeholders
and market
participants
• Better corporate
reputation
among
stakeholders
and market
particopants
• Tax or social
security
exemptions,
reductions or
other incentives
might be
associated with
green operation
and investments
in the future
OPPORTUNITIES
12 ESG Reporting Guide for Issuers of the Budapest Stock Exchange 13
Possible areas of operational benefits include
• improved strategic planning and decision-making
• alignment to future markets – better product and
service development goals
• cost savings and increased productivity
• improved risk-management
• advantages in employee recruitment and retention
3. Business opportunities
Sustainability reporting and overall knowledge of
mid- and long-term ESG developments will enable
companies to react more quickly on business
opportunities in green areas. In most sectors it can be a
definitive competitive advantage for those who get into
this area sooner than their peers and are able to identify
and take chances quickly. Some industries (e.g. oil and
gas) and certain consumer groups (environmentconscious,
solvent millennial generation) have already
surpassed this level and set ESG awareness and
compliance as minimum expectations.
4. Advanced communication and reputation
The ESG reporting process starts with the identification
of the company’s main stakeholders, their interests,
motives and material information needs, so
communication with them may become more efficient
and result in deeper engagement and enhanced overall
cooperation with investors and all other stakeholders.
In addition, high-level sustainability commitment
usually signals long-term strategic thinking and
reliability, improving company reputation on the market
in general.
5. Other benefits
As Sustainable Development Goals set by the UN in
2015 (more on that in the Regulatory Landscape
Chapter) must be reached by 2030, which is a dedicated
undertaking of 193 countries, including Hungary, green
transition must be accelerated almost everywhere.
It can be expected that green transition, operation
and sustainable investments will be incentivised and
supported by various taxing (social security) advantages,
grants and other financial and non-financial aids by
governments, which will represent either new business
opportunities or the possibility to reduce the costs of
transition. To fully exploit these benefits, companies
must comprehend the basic processes related to ESG
reporting.
In 2020, the Central Bank of Hungary launched a
program for loans financing energy-efficient real
estate developments, investments, which introduced
significantly reduced capital requirements for these
loans. Such programs are expected to increase in the
years to come.
With ESG reporting the company applies a set of indicators that helps to comply with ESG standards and to better
understand its own operation.
Finding adequate metrics to measure the adherence to sustainability goals
may be difficult at times, but not necessarily. For instance, employee turnover
is an easily accessible metric which might give valuable feedback on employee
satisfaction and loyalty and signal internal problems or inefficiencies worth
paying attention to. Reporting ESG data enables management to gain insight
and better understand more complex internal processes and tendencies.
ESG and corporate governance reporting
Corporate governance is the focus area of ESG which
goes back to a longer history having a very definite and
direct connection to shareholder (investor) rights and
interests. Corporate governance reporting standards
have developed in the past decades almost everywhere,
most countries have corporate governance codes for
listed companies. These codes are not fully harmonised
on EU level, and there are differences across the
different jurisdictions regarding the setting, supervision
and monitoring of the codes and the issuer reports.
Most codes use the “comply or explain” principle for
compliance: deviation from the recommendations is
not penalized but must be transparently presented
in the individual reports. In case the company is not
following one particular recommendation or guidance,
it has to explain to the investors why. It is also stipulated
in Commission Recommendation 2014/208/EU5,
that “efficient monitoring of the compliance with the
corporate governance codes is required at a national
level within the framework of the existing monitoring
system.”
The Corporate Governance
Recommendations of the Budapest
Stock Exchange6 were first published
in 2004 and last amended in 2018. In
Hungary, the maintenance of the code
as well as the monitoring of the issuer
reports is performed by the Exchange and
the Corporate Governance Committee,
established by BSE, but operating
independently.
With the issuance of this ESG Reporting Guide the
parallel system of corporate governance reporting will
not cease; however, the two will likely merge in some
form in the years to come.
5 EUR-Lex - 32014H0208 - EN - EUR-Lex (europa.eu)
6 Corporate Governance Recommendations - Bet site (bse.hu)
14 ESG Reporting Guide for Issuers of the Budapest Stock Exchange 15
Stakeholders and
Materiality of
Reporting
16 ESG Reporting Guide for Issuers of the Budapest Stock Exchange 17
Key steps in developing reporting ability are the identification of stakeholders and material topics.
The two tasks are connected and together they support report content development. For purposes
of the present guidance, stakeholder and materiality assessment is described closely linked to the
requirements of the Global Reporting Initiative.
Stakeholders
The company’s stakeholders are the various
constituents (institutions, businesses, interest
groups or people) who directly or indirectly
influence the operation of the company
and vice versa.
To create a proper ESG strategy and
reporting regime, the first step for
the company is to identify these
stakeholders or stakeholder groups.
Stakeholder assessment is needed
for the development of the report
content, as ESG reporting serves
to inform stakeholders on their
reasonable expectations and
interests.
Typical stakeholder categories that the
company should address are shown on
the following figure. These categories and
groupings are only examples, customised
stakeholder mapping must be prepared for
each company individually.
Investors
The investors are the owners of the company, ideally,
their interest revolves around the most important issues
from profitability through compliant and safe operation
to sustainability matters. Investors can be broken down
into different types depending on the
• level of influence on the company (majority
shareholders versus minority shareholders)
• level of expertise in core business and in investments
in general
• purpose of investment
• their ESG involvement, etc.
The company should carefully consider its investor
composition to streamline ESG concepts. In recent years,
investors have become more conscious about ESG
performance and indicators, therefore, this aspect has an
increased weight in investment decisions.
Employees
Employees’ interests regarding sustainability matters may
have multiple aspects:
• they expect their immediate working environment to
be safe and pleasing (e.g. green offices, clean air);
• they are also increasingly conscious about the social/
labour conditions of their workplace (staff turnover,
training and qualifications, gender equality /diversity/,
physical working conditions, social dialogue, rights of
workers, trade union rights, health and safety, etc.);
• they are getting progressively concerned about their
macro environment; therefore, the more employees
identify with their company, the more important its
social responsibility efforts are becoming for them.
These questions may easily become value propositions
and make the difference for some people when they
select between jobs.
Stakeholders and
Materiality of Reporting
Government
Suppliers
Customers
Regulator
Exchange
Intermediaries
Media, public
Potential interest
groups
Investors
Company
Employees
18 ESG Reporting Guide for Issuers of the Budapest Stock Exchange 19
Governments, regulators
Governments worldwide take serious measures,
create economic and other programs to increase
environmental consciousness and take immediate
steps to stop climate change and improve world
ecosystem as a whole. Therefore, regulators everywhere
urge companies to provide quality ESG data in
structured form. The Non-financial Reporting Directive
in Europe (2014/95/EU) requires certain companies
to include ESG contents in their annual reports. These
trends and the regulatory framework are expected to
intensify in the years to come (for more information
on this topic please refer to the Regulatory and Policy
Landscape Chapter).
Exchanges
Exchanges around the world can be catalysts of
sustainability efforts and help listed companies to live
up to stakeholder expectations. As a result of the work in
UN Sustainable Stock Exchanges (SSE), many exchanges
issued ESG Reporting Guides to orient companies and
help improve their non-financial reporting routines.
Suppliers, customers
ESG reporting and transparency is becoming more
important in supply-chains as well. Companies seriously
engaged in social responsibility matters require their
suppliers to comply with the same standards and
values (e.g. ethical sourcing). ESG compliance can be an
important selection criterion.
Customers, end-users of services and products are also
conscious about buying from businesses that focus
more on product safety, environmental protection and
social problems. ESG attentiveness can be a competitive
advantage, especially in certain industries.
Media, public
Sustainability gets superior media and public attention
in recent years. Especially for listed companies, who are
constantly in the public eye, there is significant pressure
to conduct socially responsible operation. Transparency
in non-financial areas improves positive media
attention in general, further, certain news agencies rank
businesses based on their ESG strategy which can be an
added value for them.
Intermediaries (rating agencies, data
providers, rankings, indexes)
In the past decade, many firms got specialised in
developing ESG standards and ratings (for further
details on this topic, please refer to the Main ESG rating
agencies and the importance of rating Chapter).
It is also becoming a commonly accepted fact that
companies with high ESG rating usually outperform
their peers in economics as well, benefiting even
strictly for-profit investors. ESG ratings therefore play an
important role in analysis and company evaluations.
Potential interest groups
Certain Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs) also
highly engage in environmental and social responsibility
affairs. These may be international or local organizations,
some of them evolved to be quite influential in recent
years (UN Environment Programme, UN Women, etc.)
and shape the ESG landscape.
Materiality
The concept of materiality is at the centre of ESG
reporting. It builds on the accounting materiality
principle, which defines decision-useful information. As
the content of non-financial reporting is defined less
strictly in regulations than that of financial reporting, the
task of determining the subject of the disclosure falls
on the reporting organisation itself. The standards of
ESG reporting are guiding and controlling the process
through the materiality principle.
Both the materiality of sustainability issues and the
materiality of financial issues have been considered at
company level, however the assessment of their relation
and their effect on each other was uncommon. The
concept of materiality in most non-financial reporting
standards, as well as the EU Regulation builds on double
materiality, i.e. financial materiality and environmental
and social materiality. Financial materiality in this
approach includes the consideration of the effect
of climate change on the company – information
particularly useful for investors. This approach can
be seen in the TCFD recommendations. Whereas,
environmental and social materiality considers the
company’s impact on the climate, the environment and
the society. In certain cases, the company’s impact on
the climate may be considered financially material7.
7 Guidelines on reporting climate-related information, European Commission Directorate-General for Financial Stability, Financial Services and Capital Markets Union, European
Commission [2019]
Source: Guidelines on reporting climate-related information, TFCD
FINANCIAL
MATERIALITY
To the extent necessary for an understanding of the
company’s development, performance and position...
Primary audience:
INVESTORS
NON-FINANCIAL REPORTING DIRECTIVE
RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE TCFD
ENVIRONMENTAL & SOCIAL
MATERIALITY
...and impact of its activities
Primary audience:
CONSUMERS, CIVIL SOCIETY, EMPLOYEES, INVESTORS
COMPANY CLIMATE COMPANY CLIMATE
climate change
impact on
company
company
impact on
climate
Company impact
on climate can be
financially material
* Financial materiality is used here in the broad sense of affecting the value of the company, not just in the sense of affecting
financial measures recognised in the financial statements
20 ESG Reporting Guide
for Issuers of the Budapest Stock Exchange 21
Materiality in ESG reporting serves as a tool to identify
the most relevant topics of importance from the
perspective of the given organisation. The materiality
approach of the respective reporting schemes vary and
so do the resources required by companies. However,
materiality is at the core of all disclosure standards.
Materiality may be considered an analogue to the
relative importance of the different topics, which can be
vastly different for one business or another. Defining the
materiality of the different ESG issues helps determine
which elements should be included in the report and
thus entail an essential task.
One approach in defining materiality is considering
its influence on stakeholder assessment and
decisions (external factor) as well as the social,
environmental and economic significance of
their impact (internal factor). Upon evaluating all
relevant ESG issues according to the two factors,
the materiality assessment needs to define the
threshold of materiality, i.e. the level of significance
in both the external and the internal aspects, above
which the issue is considered material, therefore
must be included in the report.
MOL Group, for instance, uses the above-mentioned
external-internal analysis for defining material topics.
The materiality matrix of MOL Group is included below
as an example. Topics highlighted with green are
considered material.
MOL Group’s materiality assessment is based on
the requirements of the Global Reporting Initiative
(GRI), however there are other approaches. The
World Federation of Stock Exchanges (WFE) tries to
help exchanges and reporting entities with a closer
definition of materiality in its WFE Guidance and
Metrics (revised June 2018) as follows:
• The International Accounting Standards Board8
defines ‘material’ information as that which, if
omitted, misstated or obscured, could influence the
economic decisions of readers relying on the financial
statements.
• The International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC)9
suggests an issue is material if it is relevant (is likely to
have an impact on value creation) and is sufficiently
important in terms of its known or potential effect
on value creation with reference to magnitude of the
matter’s effect and, likelihood of occurrence.
• The Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB)10
uses the US Supreme Court definition of materiality
namely, information is material if there is “a substantial
likelihood that the disclosure of the omitted fact
would have been viewed by the reasonable investor
as having significantly altered the ‘total mix’ of
information made available.”
Source: MOL Group Integrated Annual Report - 2019
8 https://www.ifrs.org/-/media/project/definition-of-materiality/exposure-draft/ed-definition-of-material.pdf
9 https://integratedreporting.org/wp-content/uploads/2015/11/1315_MaterialityinIR_Doc_4a_Interactive.pdf
10 https://www.sasb.org/standards-overview/materiality-map/
Materiality of relevant topics
Ethics, transparency,
and governance
Community
relationships
Future product
portfolio
Energy efficiency
and GHG
Biodiversity Eco-efficiency Spills and leakages
Occupational health
and safety
Process safety, Crisis
management
Human rights Customers Human resources
Suppliers Labour Practices
EXTERNAL FACTORS
Influence on stakeholder assessments and decisions
INTERNAL FACTORS
Significance of economic, environmental, and social impacts
NOT MATERIAL MATERIAL
22 ESG Reporting Guide for Issuers of the Budapest Stock Exchange 23
Content, Quality,
Format and Frequency
of Reporting
24 ESG Reporting Guide for Issuers of the Budapest Stock Exchange 25
Environmental, social and governance principles are a framework of standards by which a
company and its investors can measure the wider impact of its operations and long-term strategy.
The main intention of reporting on ESG principles is to demonstrate the way in which ESG issues
are integrated into decision-making, therefore information presented in ESG reports should
correspond to the information actually used by managers and officers of the company to make
business decisions.
To start with, reporting companies should determine the internal roles and responsibilities within the company that
are relevant to ESG assessment and reporting. Like many other tasks, it is recommended that ESG reporting starts
from the bottom up. Different departments such as finance, investor relations, communications, core business, risk,
environmental, HR, purchasing, legal need to be involved to ensure their input is integrated into the report. Most
of the larger companies now have a separate sustainability division which plays an essential and integrating role in
ESG reporting, however, ESG assessment and reporting should not be considered as their own exclusive duty. It is
recommended that ESG factors are embedded into the everyday job duties of directors so that they can become an
integral part of the business strategy, organisational culture and operational practices of the company.
The management and the board of directors should also have an essential role in the integration and oversight of ESG
reporting.
Include context
Organisations disclosing ESG information represent
a wide variety of industries, are different in size
and location, therefore, context of ESG information
is especially important to enable stakeholders to
understand and evaluate the data properly.
Besides industry, region, location or company specific
background data, the report should contain information
on the broader context of sustainability as well. This
requires companies to understand global, regional
and local drivers affecting their ESG performance and
affecting the context, thus the mindset of the report’s
audience.
Reflect on significant economic,
environmental, and social impacts
The information contained in the report should provide
a balanced view of the environmental, economic and
social impacts of the organization, both positive and
negative impacts, enabling the stakeholders to evaluate
ESG performance.
The topics, as described in the stakeholder and
materiality sections should consider the interest of
stakeholder groups targeted by the report as well as
general public.
Accessible for all stakeholders
The information contained in ESG reports is often
times highly technical, thus the accessibility for all
stakeholders reading is key. Information may contain
information for subject matter experts; however, the
report content should enable understanding of all
stakeholders.
Quality of reporting
Investors seek to understand how ESG information
is linked to the company’s business strategy and
financial performance, and they prefer comparisons to
historical company and industry trends, corporate goals,
relevant ratios, industry averages and financial results/
performance in ESG reports. The indicators chosen may
be generic, industry-specific or company-specific and
reporting companies may want to use widely accepted
indicators developed via a credible process.
Content, Quality, Format
and Frequency of Reporting
Content of reporting
Besides identifying the material topics, which
significantly affect the content of the ESG report,
stakeholders and reporting standards may have
additional expectations towards the report content.
It is recommended that ESG reports:
build on reliable data
include context
reflect on significant economic, environmental,
and social impacts
be accessible for all stakeholders
Build on reliable data gathering
Gathering reliable and complete ESG data is imperative.
The quality of available data significantly affects
decision-making capabilities and performance. Data
gathering is a demanding task, which should be
addressed by the reporting and preparation timeline
accordingly. Internal systems such as audit, risk and
data control and verification systems may serve as
great sources of ESG information. Should the internal
capability assessment deem existing systems insufficient
for providing reliable, comparable and coherent ESG
data, companies may decide to invest in improving
reporting capacity. Data collection gaps should be
addressed and explained in the reports.
26 ESG Reporting Guide for Issuers of the Budapest Stock Exchange 27
ESG reports should explain the changes in the applied
indicators year-to-year, and it is recommended that
the company also include its perception of how
this might change in the future. Reports are also
to explain methodologies for data collection and
reasoning why they were used. The company should
point out the correlation between ESG metrics
and financial performance and illustrate how ESG
initiatives complement to growth, productivity and
risk management in monetary terms, where possible.
It is recommended that comparable quantitative
information should be provided for the previous three
financial years.
It is recommended that information included in
ESG reports are:
Accurate
Balanced
Comparable and consistent
Timely
Reliable
Accurate
Information should be accurate enough to enable the
investors and other stakeholders to evaluate the results
of the company’s activities and operations.
Reporting companies should employ the same
principles to ESG data as to financial data. Data used
in ESG reports should also contain how the data
was compiled, and if there are any uncertainties or
limitations to the data. The company should also keep
evidence how data sources were used. Key assumptions
are to be also clearly presented. Raw as well as
normalised data can be used in the reports.
Balanced
The report should provide an objective view, including
both favourable and unfavourable, the positive and the
negative impacts of the company’s activities.
Avoiding or obscuring certain aspects might result
in discomfort and even mistrust from investors and
stakeholders. Subjects that are more difficult should
be explained and commented thoroughly. Describing
lessons learnt and changes resulting from negative
experiences will be useful to represent the company’s
dedication to maintain an honest and open approach
towards investors.
Comparable and consistent
The information in the report should enable readers to
evaluate the company’s performance over time and to
compare it with other organisations.
It is recommended that consistent global standards
are used in the ESG reports in order to facilitate
comparability between peers. Comparability and
consistency are facilitated by indicators and metrics
that are widely used within the specific business area
and sector, and companies should aim to report in a
similar manner to sector peers. The methods used to
collect and normalise data should remain consistent
year-on-year and if data compilation methodologies or
underlying assumptions change, changes need to be
explained. In case of significant changes, previous years
data should be recalculated with the new methodology
or assumptions to enable comparison.
Timely
ESG reports and data used therein are recommended
to coincide with the annual reporting cycle and
align to the fiscal year of the company. Investors and
stakeholders can cross-use the two different data sets,
for example normalising certain ESG data by revenues or
staff numbers.
Reliable
Reporting companies should apply strong internal
assurance processes, information included in the report
should be overseen by the board of directors, the
supervisory board and the audit committee and this fact
also should be mentioned in the report.
External assurance by qualified and independent
auditors is also highly recommended to strengthen the
credibility of the ESG data. The scope and process used
for external assurance should be described in the report.
Reporting format and disclosure channels
Reporting formats
The ESG report can be included in the board of directors’ annual report, elsewhere in the
company’s annual report, in an integrated report, but it can also be presented in a separate, standalone
report or even through other channels. The different types of reporting represent different
advantages, each company should consider which type will fit them best and the needs of their
investors. Regardless of the reporting channel chosen, the format of the report must satisfy all
relevant legal requirements and be easily available via the company’s website.
ESG reports come
in four typical categories
Basic reports Standardised reports Assured reports Integrated reports
these are considered
to be non-financial
reports disclosing
information on
environmental, social
and governance
issues relevant for the
company, but they
are not in accordance
with ESG reporting
standards.
An example for basic
report can be the 2019
Sustainability Report of
Borsodi Sörgyár Kft.
reports developed
in accordance with a
reporting standard.
An example for
standardised reports
can be the 2019
Sustainability Report of
Szerencsejáték Zrt.
standardised reports
developed according
to a standard that
can be and are
externally assured by
an independent third
party.
An example for
assured reports can be
the 2019 Sustainability
Report of OTP Bank Nyrt.
reports developed
according to
an integrated
reporting standard,
representing
the company’s
performance from
both financial and
ESG aspects.
An example for
integrated reports can
be the 2019 Integrated
Report of ALTEO Nyrt.
A dedicated, standalone report most probably provides
a greater degree of flexibility and clarity and the specific
information is easier to retrieve on its own, it does not
necessarily need to align with the style of the annual
report. Companies that are just starting nonfinancial
reporting might find it easier to prepare
a standalone report. A standalone report allows
companies to freely select the style of presentation
for ESG data, tables and charts they prefer without
taking other methods used in the, financial report into
account. As a disadvantage, the separation can imply
that the company considers sustainability or other ESG
related topics separated from the core business, so
this should be addressed carefully, for example with
cross references: material data or factors in the annual
report should also be addressed and referred to in the
standalone ESG report.
If the report is separated from financial disclosure, then
both types of disclosures should cover the same period
so that financial information can be considered and
analysed within the context of ESG information. It is also
important to ensure consistency among the different
communication channels.
Instead of qualitative narratives, quantitative
data is highly demanded as they can
provide comparisons over different periods
within the particular company as well as
with similar data from other companies.
Quantitative data also enhance investment
valuation and credit rating models.
28 ESG Reporting Guide for Issuers of the Budapest Stock Exchange 29
The Hungarian Accounting Act (Act C of 2000 on
accounting) requires large companies to integrate
non-financial information into their annual financial
statements and the company may decide to include
further ESG information in the company’s financial
disclosure even if it is not mandatory by rules of law.
The key advantage of integration of ESG topics into
regular annual reports is that ESG data gathering,
processing and verifying is integrated into processes
and controls the company already applies. It is also a
benefit that ESG data is available for investors at the
very same time as the financial information on the
company. As a disadvantage, length and complexity of
an integrated report might be a concern, which can lead
to including fewer ESG issues. Moreover, ESG topics may
not always fit fluidly the structure of the annual report.
Most probably the future standard for the format of
ESG reporting will be the integrated report, where
financial and non-financial information is integrated
into one single report. Larger listed companies
might want to choose this format and direction.
The concept provides investors a more complete
and concise insight into the performance of the
company. Again, length can be an issue with integrated
reports as well, however, reporters should be careful
when reducing the information making sure that the
most critical ESG areas are not missed. Reporters should
also keep in mind that investors and other stakeholders
reading their reports may have different ESG needs.
Companies also might want to supplemented their
integrated reports by additional and more detailed ESG
information via the company’s website or through other
publication channels.
Similar to financial reporting, it can be helpful to use
XBRL, a digital reporting language for reporting ESG
information that structures data consistently to improve
analysis.
Disclosure channels
The proper disclosure channels should be chosen so
that stakeholders can access the reports easily and
in a timely manner. Companies should be familiar
with their target audiences’ preferred ESG information
sources and update them regularly. These information
needs might be different so companies might want
to use different communication channels to ensure
that the entirety of a company’s target audience
receives the information. The channels for ESG
disclosure also depend on a company’s regulatory
context and business and communication strategy.
Choosing a language widely spoken by international
investors is recommended in addition to a national
language. Rather than publishing the ESG reports
periodically without any follow-up communication,
reporting companies should see ESG reporting
as a continuous dialogue with stakeholders, and
they should regularly address the key demands of
investors and answer their questions.
Advancing reporting capabilities
Companies on more mature stages of reporting, having assured standardised or integrated reports may consider
further advancements to the content or channels of ESG performance communication. ESG ratings may be the
advancement on reporting capability of the company. After deciding on the ESG rating approach of the company, the
first year may serve as a baseline for rating, upon which results, new data gathering needs and disclosure opportunities
may be identified. The result reviewing the first ESG rating should inform the second year reporting process.
Reporting frequency
It is general market practice that ESG reports are
published at least on an annual basis. In case of listed
companies the ideal delivery of such reports are
together with the financial report referring to the same
year. Some industrial sectors cover 2 years in one report.
Non-listed companies typically prepare their reports
at the beginning of a calendar year, and publish it at
autumn. When defining frequency however, it might be
necessary to communicate sooner when a significant
incident or controversy has taken place through adhoc
disclosures rather than to wait for the next annual
reporting cycle. The report content may be adopted for
the different reporting frequencies.
Roadmap of reporting
Achieving the different levels of reporting maturity requires varying resources. Report
development requires significant amount of time. The following two examples outline the
reporting roadmap for developing and for advancing reporting capabilities.
Building reporting capacity
The content of ESG reports is governed by the standard the company chooses to use and greatly limited by the data
gathering possibilities. For companies new to ESG reporting, gathering data in accordance with disclosure standards
may encounter significant difficulties. Therefore, a data gathering system gap assessment should be conducted. The
results of the data gathering system assessment should identify the improvement opportunities and needs of data
gathering in order to fulfil the standard requirements. After the gap analysis, a basic report may be created in the first
year, after intensive data gathering and report writing processes. Upon implementing the identified developments
to the data gathering system, the second report may be a standardised report. However, assurance poses a new layer
of requirements and understanding, the management of which requires further resources. Assurance may be the
aspiration of a three-year-long capacity building roadmap.
1st year 2nd year 3rd year
July
July
July
July
August
August
August
August
September
September
September
September
October
October
October
November
November
November
December
December
December
January
January
January
February
February
February
March
March
March
April
April
April
May
May
May
June
June
June
1st year 2nd year
Month 1
Month 2
Month 3
Month 4
Month 5
Month 6
Month 7
Month 8
Month 9
Month 10
Month 11
Month 12
Month 13
Month 14
Month 15
Month 16
Month 17
Month 18
Month 19
Month 20
Month 21
Month 22
Month 23
Month 24
Month 25
Month 26
Review of data
gathering system
Defining annual
reporting goals
Review assurance
possibility
Report
writing
Report
writing
Review of
ESG rating
Report
writing
Report
writing
Report
writing
Reviewing disclosure
ability, extending
standard alignment
Data
gathering
Data
gathering
Data
gathering
Data
gathering
Assurance
Assurance Assurance
Stakeholder and
materiality assessment
Decision on ESG
rating approach
Publication
of first report
Publication of
assured report
Data
gathering
Publication of
second report
Publication of
third report
Publication of
assured report
30 ESG Reporting Guide for Issuers of the Budapest Stock Exchange 31
Regulatory and
Policy Landscape
32 ESG Reporting Guide for Issuers of the Budapest Stock Exchange 33
Various rules of law are already in effect worldwide that legally oblige certain companies to
disclose so called ‘non-financial information’, and it is widely expected that the obligation to
publish such information will be legally required and binding in more and more details and not
only on the largest companies, but on many medium-sized or even smaller firms as well.
The following is a short overview of the development and the key milestones of the international,
EU and Hungarian regulatory landscape regarding sustainability and non-financial disclosures11.
Background
The term ESG was first contained in a study called
‘Who Cares Wins’, in 2005, endorsed by the United
Nations and market leading financial institutions. The
study set up recommendations to better integrate
environmental, social and governance issues in analysis,
asset management and securities brokerage.
In 2015, the United Nations (UN) adopted the 2030
Agenda for Sustainable Development and its 17
Sustainable Development Goals (SDG)12 which call
for concerted efforts towards building an inclusive,
sustainable and resilient future for people and planet
and intend to harmonise three core elements: economic
growth, social inclusion and environmental protection.
The Paris Climate Agreement13 (PCA), originating
from the foundations laid down in the SDG, is the firstever
universal, legally binding global climate change
agreement, adopted at the Paris climate conference in
December 2015. In particular, the agreement sets out a
global framework to avoid dangerous climate change
by limiting global warming to well below 2°C and
pursuing efforts to limit it to 1.5°C and it also includes
the commitment to align financial flows with a pathway
towards low-carbon and climate-resilient development.
ESG disclosure regulations already in force
The Non-Financial Reporting Directive (NFRD)14
(Directive 2014/95/EU on the disclosure of non-financial
and diversity information) requires large public interest
companies (with more than 500 staff ) to disclose certain
information on the way they operate and manage social
and environmental challenges in order to help investors,
consumers, policy makers and other stakeholders
to evaluate the non-financial performance of these
companies and encourages the reporting companies to
develop a responsible approach to business (specifically
related to employment, board diversity, human rights,
anti-corruption and bribery issues). Companies are
required to include non-financial statements in their
annual reports from 2017 onwards.
The obligation to prepare a non-financial statement (as
part of their annual financial statements) in accordance
with the NFRD was implemented to the Hungarian
Accounting Act in 2016. It applies only to large
companies of public interest. As per the Accounting Act,
the non-financial statement shall include
• a brief description of the business model of the
company,
• description on policies applied by the company
regarding environmental protection, social and
employment aspects, anti-corruption measures,
also outlining the internal and/or external assurance
thereof,
• results of the above policies,
• material risks regarding the above topics and
description on risk management,
• key non-financial data.
In line with the NFRD approach, in case a company
does not have one or more of the above policies,
the Accounting Act requires the company to explain
(comply or explain principle). Also, information may
be left out of the report in case the company deems
disclosure is detrimental to its legitimate business
interests, as long as the missing information does
not represent a misleading picture on the company’s
performance, development and activities.
The Shareholder Rights Directive (SRDII)15
(Directive 2017/828/EU) can also be listed among
sustainability regulations, as, effective from June 10,
2019, it introduces ESG investment strategy, corporate
engagement and disclosure obligations on the buy-side.
SRDII was implemented in Hungary by Act 67 of 201916.
The Sustainable Finance Action Plan
Recent ESG regulations derive from the Sustainable
Finance Policy17 issued by the European Council,
which is complemented by several Green Finance
Initiatives18, such as the Sustainable Finance Action
Plan19. The SFAP has four key elements:
• The Sustainable Finance Disclosure Regulation
• The Taxonomy Regulation
• The Climate Benchmarks Regulation
• The (proposed) EU Green Bond Standard
The Sustainable Finance Disclosure Regulation
(SFDR)20 (Regulation (EU) 2019/2088 on sustainabilityrelated
disclosures in the financial services sector),
entered into force on 10 March, 2021, lays down
harmonised rules for financial market participants
(portfolio managers, fund managers, certain insurance
Regulatory and Policy
Landscape
11 For a more comprehensive review of ESG Regulations, please consult FACTSET’s EU Environmental Social Governance (ESG) Regulations Guide by Barrie C. Ingman
12 Transforming our world: the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development | Department of Economic and Social Affairs (un.org)
13 UNTC
The EU set four main objectives which should
be supported by legal framework:
• As public funding is insufficient to achieve
SDGs and the PCA goals, investments
should be channelled towards sustainable
activities (for which the definition of
sustainable and unsustainable activities will be
necessary).
• In order to avoid “greenwashing” (when
activities or products are misleadingly labelled
“green”, when in fact they are not sustainable),
a harmonized classification system and
standardized benchmark rules should be
introduced.
• To ensure that the first two objectives are
met, proper disclosure obligations must
be in place to demonstrate the exposure of a
product or portfolio to ESG risks and vice versa.
• Enhanced risk management rules and
prudential measures requiring firms to
assess ESG risk exposures to the products
manufactured or distribute and to the firm
itself.
14 EUR-Lex - 32014L0095 - EN - EUR-Lex (europa.eu)
15 EUR-Lex - 32017L0828 - EN - EUR-Lex (europa.eu)
16 2019. évi LXVII. törvény a hosszú távú részvényesi szerepvállalás ösztönzéséről és
egyes törvények jogharmonizációs célú módosításáról - Törvények és országgyűlési
határozatok (jogtar.hu)
17 Financing the climate transition - Consilium (europa.eu)
18 Sustainable finance | European Commission (europa.eu)
19 EUR-Lex - 52018DC0097 - EN - EUR-Lex (europa.eu)
20 EUR-Lex - 32019R2088 - EN - EUR-Lex (europa.eu)
34 ESG Reporting Guide for Issuers of the Budapest Stock Exchange 35
undertakings) and financial advisers on transparency
with regard to the integration of sustainability risks
and the consideration of adverse sustainability impacts
in their processes and the provision of sustainabilityrelated
information with respect to financial products.
The SFDR requires investment firms to disclose the
environmental sustainability of an investment and
the provenance of any ESG claims made, the risks
investments present to ESG factors and the risks ESG
factors present to investments. The preparation of
accurate and comprehensive information on ESG will
necessitate significant system and control changes, and
a material allocation of resource for many firms.
On 11 December 2019, the Commission presented the
European Green Deal21, a growth strategy aiming to
make Europe the first climate neutral continent by 2050.
As part of the Green Deal, the Commission presented on
14 January 2020 the European green deal investment
plan, which will mobilise at least €1 trillion of sustainable
investments over the next decade. It will enable a
framework to facilitate public and private investments
needed for the transition to a climate-neutral, green,
competitive and inclusive economy.
The Taxonomy Regulation22 (Regulation (EU) 2020/852
on the establishment of a framework to facilitate
sustainable investment), establishes the criteria for
determining whether an economic activity qualifies as
environmentally sustainable for the purposes of
establishing the degree to which an investment is
environmentally sustainable.
The Regulation requires financial market participants
to classify investments based on the NFRD reports
and disclose ESG and Taxonomy related analysis.
The Taxonomy Regulation tasks the Commission
with establishing the actual list of environmentally
sustainable activities by defining technical screening
criteria for each environmental objective through
delegated acts, such delegated acts are still under
preparation. The Taxonomy Regulation shall apply
generally from 1 January 2023, however, from 1 January
2022 large companies of public interest subject to
an obligation to publish non-financial information
shall include in their non-financial statement the
proportion of their turnover derived from products or
services associated with climate change mitigation and
climate change adaptation, as well as the proportion
of their capital expenditure and the proportion of their
operating expenditure related to assets or processes
associated with climate change mitigation and climate
change adaptation. This means that affected companies
will have to start gathering data and making all
necessary preparations so that they can comply with
this legal requirement in respect of the business year
2021.
The new EU Climate Transition Benchmarks
Regulation23 (regulation (EU) 2019/2089 - CTBR) sets
up two types of benchmarks in accordance with the
impact investing, the EU Paris-Aligned Benchmarks and
the less strict EU Climate Transition Benchmarks and
lays down the minimum requirements for each of those
benchmarks. The Regulation obliges the administrators
to issue a statement whether their benchmarks qualify
as one of these categories and they should also publish
the methodology that they use for the calculation of
those benchmarks.
Local regulatory measures
Beside the already mentioned Accounting Act and
the mandatory implementation of EU regulations, the
Central Bank of Hungary and other institutions also try
to help market participants in their ESG compliance
efforts.
The Taxonomy Regulation applies
to financial market participants
that make available financial
products as well as undertakings
which are subject to the obligation
to publish a non-financial
statement or a consolidated nonfinancial
statement.
The Central Bank of Hungary will most probably
help market participants with implementation
guidelines and explanatory notes where
relevant. BSE is trying to help issuers with
this Guide and with educational events,
conferences.
It is also worth mentioning that the Association
of Hungarian Investment Fund and Asset
Management Companies is also issuing a
recommendation to help align the classification
of funds with SFRD.
Further developments
As already mentioned in the Introduction,
at this point of time, it is impossible to give
an exhaustive and all-inclusive review of all
ESG-related regulations. In the following years,
a vast amount of Level II rules (implementing
regulations and technical standards) are
scheduled to come out to complement the
above Level I regulations with necessary details
and fill in the gaps.
21 A European Green Deal | European Commission (europa.eu)
22 EUR-Lex - 32020R0852 - EN - EUR-Lex (europa.eu)
23 EUR-Lex - 32019R2089 - EN - EUR-Lex (europa.eu)
24 TEG report on EU green bond standard | European Commission (europa.eu)
Some important EU initiatives on the way:
• EU Green Bond Standard: building on current best
practices, and within the framework of the Prospectus
Regulation, the Commission issued a Green Bond
Standard Report24 with recommendations for a
proposed standard for green bonds.
• NFRD review: there is an ongoing revision of the NFRD
in 2021, which aims at the standardization of nonfinancial
reporting practices and regulations
• Sustainable Corporate Governance: a new initiative
which suggests that corporate governance reporting
should be extended to more ESG aspects (social) and
would replace current comply or explain practices with
more specific and stricter regulations, and to move
from reporting to mandatory compliance in certain
issues. This concept is currently under consultation and
triggered debate among market participants.
• IFRS consultation: a 5-yearly review of the IFRS
regulations was conducted last year, with ESG reporting
in the focus, evaluation of the consultation and
announcement of subsequent steps can be expected
soon.
Timeline of ESG Regulations in the order of effective date
Taxonomy Regulation
January 1, 2023
(From January 1, 2022,
statement on proportion
of turnover/CAPEX/
OPEX related to climate
change mitigation and
adaptation)
NFRD
January 1, 2017
SRDII
June 10, 2019
CTBR
April 30, 2020 (BM
statements on ESG
factors reflected)
SFDR
March 10, 2021
(website and precontractual
disclosures)
SFDR
June 30, 2021
(entity level
disclosures, adverse
sustainability
Impacts)
CTBR
December 31, 2021
(BM statement
climate methodology
disclosure)
CTBR
January 1, 2022
(administrators’
statement on
alignment with PA
objectives)
SFDR
January 1,
2022, periodic
reporting
SFDR
December 30,
2022 (product
level disclosures
of adverse
sustainability)
CTBR
December 31, 2022 (report
on creation of ESG BM)
36 ESG Reporting Guide for Issuers of the Budapest Stock Exchange 37
Introduction to ESG
Reporting Standards
38 ESG Reporting Guide for Issuers of the Budapest Stock Exchange 39
BSE does not recommend one specific standard to use from the many ESG standards available for
reporting but rather provides a list of standards that could be applicable for issuers.
Prior to selecting a reporting standard, the company should get information from the
organisations developing the particular standard or advice from subject matter expert advisors.
Global reporting standards to start with
The two most popular standards used by BSE listed
companies are GRI and the SASB. The standards
have been developed to provide ESG information to
stakeholders.
GRI disclosure provides information on how the
company’s actions are likely to impact the external
environment to a broad group of stakeholders
including investors, while SASB is targeted specifically at
investors, communicating about the ESG issues likely
to impact the companies’ financial performance.
Besides being one of the most popular standards
among BSE listed companies, GRI was created as a
universal disclosure standard for a diverse group of
companies, with additional sector specific disclosures
applying specific metrics. Thus, the topics cover a wide
range of issues, whose relevance vary for the disclosing
company. GRI is one of the most widely used ESG
disclosure standard globally, however its pertinence
in certain industries, especially ones with less mature
sustainability disclosure practice, may be limited.
SASB, as mentioned previously, is targeted at investors
specifically. The standard contains 77 industry specific
sets of ESG metrics, potentially having financial
implications for the company. This allows for a more
focused disclosure, yet it is important to note, that SASB
was developed with a strong emphasis on financial
materiality, therefore it builds on financial information.
Both standards are using international and American
terminology, consequently some definitions are
harder to apply and understand from a European and
Hungarian perspective. This may lead to confusion on
the data servicing side and on the surface analogous
but truly incomparable data. To ensure the technical
adequacy of indicators, both local and subject matter
knowledge is required.
Although GRI and SASB have different purposes,
they can be and are in many cases used together.
The two standards are not competitive, but
complementary frameworks, using different
definitions of materiality for different purposes.
For more information on the two standards, please
consult the Annex.
Issue specific global disclosure and target setting schemes
Besides the complex, overarching reporting standards
addressing economic, environmental, social and
governance aspects of company performance, due to
the growing interest and investor demand for action
against climate change, issue specific disclosure and
target setting schemes arose.
There are various commitment and reporting schemes
in place aiming at assessing and evaluating the short-,
medium- and long-term impacts of climate change
and safeguarding future interests of investors. There
are several policy directions, guidance documents and
global platforms such as UN SDGs, UNGC and UN PRI
in the area of ESG. BSE recommends three central and
widely known disclosure and target setting schemes
below. Notably, certain industries have developed ESG
performance assessments and benchmark databases to
guide monitoring and reporting efforts of companies.
One great example is the GRESB Assessments in the
real asset investment industry. The assessments are
focusing on investor requirements and are aligned the
aforementioned international reporting frameworks
as well as the Paris Climate Agreement, regional and
country specific disclosure guidelines and regulations.
BSE recommended ESG reporting global
disclosure and target setting schemes for
specific issues
1. Task-Force on Climate-related Financial
Disclosures (TCFD)
2. Climate Disclosure Standards Board (CDBS)
3. Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP)
For more information on these, please consult the Annex.
Another notable target setting scheme is the Science
Based Targets Initiative (SBTi), which focuses on climate
action through emission reduction target setting.
Integrated reporting to enhance transparency and
address interconnectivity
Existing non-financial reporting may be strengthened
by implementing an integrated reporting approach.
Integrated reporting enables the company ESG
communication to report in a cohesive way, reducing
duplication and miscommunication between business
areas.
Guiding Principles and Content Elements govern the
content of integrated reports according to the IIRC
Framework, however, they often build on disclosures
according to the GRI or SASB standards.
BSE recommended Integrated ESG Reporting
Framework
1. International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC)
For more information on the framework, please consult
the Annex.
Please note that in 2021, ESG reporting standards are expected to become more
harmonised, cooperating on various fields with each other, therefore, standard-specific
information included herein should be doublechecked on the respective webpages of the
standard providers.
Introduction to ESG
Reporting Standards
industry specific sets of
ESG metrics
77
40 ESG Reporting Guide for Issuers of the Budapest Stock Exchange 41
ESG Data from
Collection to Issuer
Ratings
42 ESG Reporting Guide for Issuers of the Budapest Stock Exchange 43
Main ESG rating agencies
and the importance of
rating
The increasing prominence of sustainability,
environmental, social and governance
considerations for evaluating a company’s
performance brought the need for objective
assessment of ESG performance and thus the
emergence of different rating agencies. These
ESG rating agencies are specialised in assessing
the environmental, social and governance
performance according to their respective
methodologies. The methodologies applied by
the ESG rating agencies vary, frequently using
publicly available data (such as media sources and
annual reports).
ESG rating agencies aim to inform interested parties
and enhance financial decision-making processes. ESG
performance may influence credit rating positively.
As suggested by several studies, ESG criteria has turned
out to be highly valuable, with ESG portfolios continually
outperforming traditional portfolios. At companies that
focused on sustainability, operational performance was
improved, translating to higher cash flows. Companies that
score well on ESG metrics are believed to better anticipate
future risks and opportunities, be more disposed to longerterm
strategic thinking, and focused on long-term value
creation.
It should be noted that ratings provided by different
agencies are not consistent. The proliferation of different
standards and rating agencies already raised the need
for standardization across the sector in the future by
many, but currently this inconsistency must be taken into
consideration.
The main ESG rating agencies globally are:
• Arabesque: Arabesque S-Ray assesses company
performance and sustainability based on ESG and
financial metrics. Currently covers approximately 7 000
companies, but applies no minimum limit to companies
in size, region, sector or other aspects for inclusion in
assessment.
• ISS: ISS provides ESG rating for corporations and
countries as well. The corporate ESG rating uses general
and industry specific criteria to assess ESG performance.
ISS is a SASB alliance organizational member.
• MSCI: MSCI ESG rating aims to identify and assess
ESG related risks in company operations. The rating
uses publicly available data. The ESG rating combines
weighted percentage of risks according to their impact,
and is normalised relative to industry peers. MSCI
includes approximately 8 500 companies, primarily equity
issuers that are constituents of MSCI market capital
Indexes and fixed income issuers covered in the Barclays
Global Aggregate Indexes.
• Refinitiv: Refinitiv ESG score provides information on
the relative ESG performance of the companies. Refinitiv
collects ESG data from annual report, NGO websites, CSR
reports, company websites, stock exchange filings and
news sources. The rating covers over 7 000 companies
globally.
• Robeco: RobecoSAM Smart ESG scores include
financially material and industry specific ESG issues. The
ESG rating and benchmarking services are now owned by
and operating from S&P Global. The rating covers almost
5 000 companies worldwide.
• Sustainalytics: the ESG rating of Sustainalytics is to
be integrated into Morningstar Equity Research. The
rating focuses on ESG risks, enabling cross-industry
comparison between companies. The rating covers 12
000 companies.
As mentioned above, ESG rating agencies are often
connected to and considered by global credit rating
agencies, such as S&P, Moody’s, Fitch and DBRS.
The rating may be on an “invitational” basis, based on
capital market value, or on voluntary basis, depending the
Rating Agency.
In Hungary, currently four corporations – MOL, Magyar
Telekom, Richter Gedeon and OTP Bank – receive ESG
ratings from major ESG rating agencies, such as Arabesque,
ISS ESG, MSCI, RobecoSAM and Sustainalytics.
ESG Data from Collection
to Issuer Ratings
44 ESG Reporting Guide for Issuers of the Budapest Stock Exchange 45
BSE
Recommendations
46 ESG Reporting Guide for Issuers of the Budapest Stock Exchange 47
BSE acknowledges the importance of ESG issues and aims to support issuers in effectively
addressing and communicating them.
Guiding principles for issuers in developing their
ESG approach:
1 Develop understanding of ESG issues
2 Incorporate ESG issues into decision-making
3 Define roadmap for continuous improvement in addressing ESG issues
4 Disclose ESG relevant issues
Besides respecting and implementing the guiding principles, BSE Issuers are recommended to perform certain tasks
related to ESG reporting.
Recommendations for
BSE issuers:
All BSE issuers should be able to disclose their ESG
performance at least annually, starting in 2023
at the latest, disclosing information on the year
2022. The report should be publicly available. The
disclosures of issuers are categorised into three levels
based on the following criteria:
ESG categorisation Entry level Intermediate level Advanced level
Disclosure Standalone ESG
disclosure
Standalone ESG
disclosure
Integrated reporting
Frequency of disclosure Annual report Annual report Annual report and
quarterly ESG update
Reporting format Basic report Standardised report Integrated
(standardised) report
Report assurance Not required Not required External assurance
required25
Target setting Not required ESG target Target set and
monitored according to
target setting scheme
Improvement Should advance to
intermediate level in 2
years
Should perform all
aspects in 2 years and
advance to advanced
level in 3 years
Should perform all
aspects in 3 years
In line with Principle 3 above, issuers should aim to improve their approach of addressing ESG issues, for which they
are recommended to prepare and publish a roadmap for meeting the BSE recommendations and improving
their categorisation according to them. The roadmap should be prepared by 31st December 202126, and should
cover but is not limited to:
• the schedule of adapting the BSE recommendations,
• the desired ESG category for each year between 2022 and 2025,
• the planned advancements to achieve ‘advanced level’.
Issuers are expected to publish at least a standalone ESG disclosure in 2023 (covering year 2022) in order to meet ‘entry
level’ classification, and then gradually move to the next levels.
BSE Recommendations
25 External assurance can be reasonable or limited and may include but is not limited to assurance according to ISAE 3000 standard.
26 Issuers listed after this date are recommended to prepare the roadmap at the time of their listing or as soon as possible after the first day of trading.
48 ESG Reporting Guide
for Issuers of the Budapest Stock Exchange 49
In ‘entry level’, issuers publish at least a standalone, non-standardised ESG disclosure, may it be a CSR, sustainability
or ESG report. Since the report is not prepared according to any international standard, no assurance is necessary.
However, in line with the principle of continuous improvement, ‘entry level’ issuers are recommended to advance to
‘intermediate level’ within 2 years.
Advancement between categories takes place in case the issuer performs at least one of the next level requirements.
In case of ‘entry level’ advancement, this is either target setting or publishing a standardised report.
‘Intermediate level issuers should be able to report on their ESG performance in accordance with an acknowledged
reporting standard annually. They are recommended to set medium- or long-term (i.e. annual to 5 year) ESG targets.
Intermediate level issuers should perform all intermediate level requirements in 2 years and move to advanced
level in the third year. To reach advanced level, the issuer are expected to perform at least one of the advanced level
requirements.
Advanced level issuers should publish an assured integrated report on their financial and ESG performance in
accordance with an acknowledged reporting standard annually. ESG updates should be shared quarterly. Medium- or
long-term (i.e. annual to 5 year) ESG targets should be defined in line with target setting scheme(s). Advanced level
issuers should perform all requirements in 3 years.
Entry level
• Annual CSR report
• Non-standardized
• No assurance
• No target setting
Required to advance
Required to perform all aspects Required to advance
Required to perform all aspects
Entry level
• Annual CSR report
• Non-standardized
• No assurance
• No target setting
Intermediate level
• Annual CSR report
• According to GRI
• No assurance
• No target setting
Intermediate level
• Annual CSR report
• According to GRI
• No assurance
• No target setting
Intermediate level
• Annual CSR report
• According to GRI
• No assurance
• No target setting
Intermediate level
• Annual CSR report
• According to GRI
• No assurance
• ESG target
Advanced level
• Annual CSR report and
quarterly ESG update
• According to GRI
• No assurance
• ESG target
Advanced level
• Annual CSR report and
quarterly ESG update
• According to GRI
• Limited external
assurance
• ESG target
Advanced level
• Annual CSR report and
quarterly ESG update
• According to GRI
• No assurance
• ESG target
Advanced level
• Annual Integrated
report and quarterly
ESG update
• According to GRI&IIRC
• Limited external
assurance
• ESG target
Advanced level
• Annual Integrated
report and quarterly
ESG update
• According to GRI&IIRC
• Limited external
assurance
• Science Based Targets
2023 2024 2025
Figure 1 Advancing to ‘intermediate level’
2025
2028
2026
2029
2027
2030
2028
2031
Figure 2 Advancing
to ‘advanced level’
Figure 3 Fulfilling ‘advanced level’ requirements
We have historically relied on the GRI, as our sustainability report
grew over the years as we sought to meet the increasing demand for
ESG information from all stakeholders. In 2019 however we decided
to rethink not only the report itself but also what kind of reporting
standard we would prioritize going forward. We introduced SASB as
we transitioned from a narrative-driven sustainability report to a more
financially material data-driven report supported by concise narrative.
For the 2020 Annual Report climate related disclosures are produced
in accordance with the core elements of the TCFD
“
”
Mikkel Skougaard
Group ESG Reporting Senior Expert
MOL GROUP
50 ESG Reporting Guide for Issuers of the Budapest Stock Exchange 51
Annex
52 ESG Reporting Guide for Issuers of the Budapest Stock Exchange 53
Name Global Reporting
Initiative
Sustainability Accounting
Standards Board
International Integrated Reporting
Council (and Framework)
Short name GRI SASB IIRC <IR>
Focus ESG, wider environmental,
social and governance
objectives
ESG, industry and wider
environmental and governance
objectives
ESG, value creation for organisations
through sustainable reporting
Logo
Links www.globalreporting.org https://www.sasb.org/ https://integratedreporting.org/
Language English + 10 languages, no
Hungarian
English English + 10 languages, no Hungarian
Organisation International, independent,
non-profit organisation
Foundation Global, not-for-profit organization
Location Amsterdam, the Netherlands
(founded in Boston in 1997)
San Fransisco, California, USA incorporated in England and Wales,
registered office in London
Creation,
history
1997, 2000 (first guideline) 2011 founded by Jean Rogers, 2017
first guideline
formed in 2010; Dec 2013 framework
published
Format CSR report SEC Form 10-K, 20-F filings Stand-alone or integrated report
Mission GRI's mission to help
companies to understand
and communicate
their impact on critical
sustainability issues, such
as climate change, human
rights, governance and social
well-being.
Mission: is to establish industryspecific
disclosure standards
across ESG topics that facilitate the
communication between companies
and investors about financially
material, decision-useful information.
The International Integrated Reporting
Council (IIRC) is a global coalition of
regulators, investors, companies, standard
setters, the accounting profession,
academia and NGOs. The coalition
promotes communication about value
creation as the next step in the evolution
of corporate reporting.The IIRC’s mission
is to establish integrated reporting and
thinking within mainstream business
practice as the norm in the public and
private sectors.
Name Climate Disclosure Standards
Board
Task-Force on Climate-related
Financial Disclosures
Carbon Disclosure Project
Short name CDSB TCFD CDP
Focus ES, climate, environmental and
natural capital
EG, climate related risks and
opportunities
EG, Climate, Water, Forests
Logo
Links https://www.cdsb.net/ https://www.fsb-tcfd.org/
TCFD Learning Hub:
http://tcfdhub.org/
Financial Stability Board (FSB):
https://www.fsb.org/
https://www.cdp.net/en
Language English English English
Organisation International consortium of business
and environmental NGOs,
Organization governed by 31
members selected by FSB
CDP Worldwide is regulated by the
Charity Commission for England and
Wales
Location London, United Kingdom - London, United Kingdom
Creation,
history
Founded at the World Economic
Forum meeting in Davos in 2007.
2015, final recommendations in
2017, Michael R. Bloomberg
Founded in 2000.
Format Annual reports, 10-K filing, or
integrated report
Annual financial filings (annual
report)
CDP's online reporting platform
Mission CDSB’s mission is to align the global
mainstream corporate reporting
model to equate natural capital with
financial capital.
The framework offers the same
rigour as financial information.
Companies provide decision-useful
information via the mainstream
corporate report.
Help companies to understand
what financial markets want
from disclosure in order to
measure and respond to climate
change risks, and encourage
firms to align their disclosures
with investors’ needs.
CDP wants to see a thriving economy
that works for people and planet
in the long term. To achieve this,
it focuses investors, policymakers,
companies, cities, states and regions
on taking urgent action to build a
truly sustainable economy.

