MINISTRY OF CORPORATE AFFAIRS
Government of India
National Guidelines
on responsible
Business conduct

1
Technical support provided by
National Guidelines
on
Responsible Business Conduct

National Guidelines on Responsible Business Conduct 3
Message: Hon’ble Prime Minister, Government of India 5
Foreword: Union Minister of Finance and Corporate Affairs 6
Description and Explanation of Terms 7
Chapter 1: Introduction 11
Chapter 2: Core Elements 14
ANNEXURES 29
Annexure 1: Guidance on Adoption of NGRBC 30
Annexure 2: Guidance for Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises 35
Annexure 3: Business Responsibility Reporting Framework 38
Annexure 4: SDGs Mapped Against NGRBC Principles 50
Annexure 5: Business Case Matrix 52
Annexure 6: Guidance for Businesses on Using the BRRF as a SelfAssessment Tool 53
Annexure 7: Indian Laws Principles (Indicative) 55
Annexure 8: Resources 59
Table of Contents

National Guidelines on Responsible Business Conduct 7
Some of the key terms used in this document are
described here. These descriptions are only indicative.
They have been selected based on a review of Indian
and international definitions, and their applicability
in the context of these Guidelines.
Accountable: Being responsible and answerable for
their actions, willing to explain them to others, and
taking ownership of all repercussions if so required.
Circular Economy: This is an alternative to a
traditional linear economy (make, use, dispose), in
which resources are used for as long as possible, the
maximum value is extracted from them whilst in use,
after which products and materials are recovered
and regenerated at the end of each service life. The
idea of a circular economy is called circularity. It is
also referred to as “cradle-to-cradle”.
Collective Bargaining: Negotiating between
the employees’ organization and employer’s
oorganization; management in good faith with
a view to agree on terms and conditions of work
and / or settlement of disputes and grievances of
employees represented by a representative body of
employees
Complicity: Refers to involvement of the business in
violations of any of the Principles and Core Elements
by third parties connected with its operations. It is
generally made up of the following:
•	 An action or omission (failure to act) by a business,
or individual representing a business, that ‘helps’
(facilitates, legitimize, assists, encourages, etc.)
another, in some way, to perpetrate a violation;
•	 The business was or should have been aware
that its action or omission could provide such
help;
•	 Complicity may be direct, beneficial or silent.
Consumer: A person or business that buys
products or services for personal use, resale or use
in production and manufacture. It also includes the
user of the product or service other than the buyer.
Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR): Corporate
Social Responsibility (CSR) means and includes but
is not limited to (i) Projects or programs relating
to activities specified in Schedule VII of the Indian
Companies Act 2013; or (ii) Projects or programs
relating to activities undertaken by the board of
directors of a company (Board) in pursuance of
recommendations of the CSR Committee of the
Board as per declared CSR Policy of the company,
subject to the condition that such policy will cover
subjects enumerated in Schedule VII of the Act.
Disclosure: An organization’s practice of reporting
to all stakeholders on its economic, environmental
and social impacts. It also presents the organization’s
values and governance model and demonstrates
the link between its strategy and its commitment to
sustainable development.
Discrimination: Unjust or prejudicial treatment of
people, especially on the grounds of, but not limited
to, caste, creed, sex, race, ethnicity, age, colour,
religion, disability, socio-economic status or sexual
orientation.
Diversity: An understanding that every individual
is unique and therefore embracing and respecting
the differences on account of, but not limited
to, caste, creed, sex, race, ethnicity, age, colour,
religion, disability, socio-economic status or sexual
orientation.
Employee: A person employed, directly or by or
through any agency (including a contractor), whether
for remuneration or not, for carrying out activities of
the organization or any part thereof, incidental to or
Description and
Explanation of Terms
8 National Guidelines on Responsible Business Conduct
connected with those activities, in pursuance of the
organization’s stated objectives. It would also include
those who undertake these activities outside of the
business’s premises including their own homes.
Equity: An approach which recognizes the need,
plans and delivers a fair and equivalent opportunity
across stakeholders to engage gainfully from their
interactions with the business.
Ethical: Individual or collective behaviour that is in
accordance with accepted written and / or unwritten
codes of principles and values that govern decisions,
actions and conduct within a business in the context
of a particular situation and is consistent with
accepted norms of behaviour.
Fair Living Wages: A wage sufficient for a family to
meet its basic needs and which provides some ability
to deal with emergencies.
Freedom of Association: Workers and employers,
without distinction whatsoever, have the right
to establish and, subject only to the rules of the
organization concerned, to join organizations of their
own choosing without previous authorization.
Governance: Relates to “how” an organization makes
decisions, how it operates to achieve its objectives
and how stakeholders have their say in the processes.
Governance Structure: The formalized individual
or group of individuals charged with the ultimate
responsibility of oversight of a business. This would
refer to the equivalent of the Board for companies,
the partners for partnership firms and the owner of
the business for sole proprietorships.
Grievance Redressal Mechanism: Mechanism
for any stakeholder individually or collectively to
raise and resolve reasonable concerns affecting
them without impeding access to other judicial or
administrative remedies. The mechanism should be:
•	 Clear, transparent and have independent
governance structures
•	 Accessible
•	 Predictable
•	 Equitable
•	 Based on dialogue and mediation
Harassment: Wide range of offensive behaviour
that is unwanted by the recipient and which the
perpetuator knows or ought to know is threatening
or disturbing.
Intellectual Property (IP): Refers to creations of
the mind, such as inventions, literary, musical and
artistic works, and symbols, names, images, and
designs used in commerce, for which the IP owners
are granted certain exclusive rights under the
corresponding national IP laws. Common types of IP
include patents (inventions), copyrights, trademarks,
industrial designs, software, geographic indications
and trade secrets, etc.
Involuntary Labour: All work or service that
is extracted under the menace of penalty. Also
includes terms such as forced labour, bonded labour
and modern slavery.
Participation of Workers: Situation where
workers are involved in some way in the decisionmaking process of a business organization. Worker
participation can take many forms. There might be
a consultative council in the company where trade
unions and management meet regularly to discuss
points of mutual interest. Workers can be organized
in quality circles and meet regularly in small groups
to discuss ways in which their work could be better
organized.
Precautionary Principle: When human activities
may lead to morally unacceptable harm that
is scientifically plausible but uncertain, actions
shall be taken to avoid or diminish that harm.
Morally unacceptable harm refers to that which
may threaten human health, or is seriously and
effectively irreversible or inequitable to present or
future generations, or imposed without sufficient
consideration of the human rights of those affected.
Product: Any good and / or service produced for
introduction to trade or commerce, possessing
intrinsic value and capable of delivery to a consumer
in tangible form, intangible form or a combination
thereof.
Product Life Cycle: This refers to all the stages of
a product from extraction or acquisition of raw
materials through manufacturing and processing,
distribution and transportation, use and reuse,
recycling and disposal. In the case of services, it
refers to all activities and processes from the design
to delivery.
National Guidelines on Responsible Business Conduct 9
Stakeholder: Individual or group concerned or
interested with or impacted by the activities of the
businesses and vice-versa, now or in the future.
Typically, stakeholders of a business include, but is
not limited to, its investors/shareholders, employees
(and their families), customers, communities,
value chain members and other business partners,
regulators, civil society actors, and media.
Sustainability: The outcome achieved by balancing
the social, environmental and economic impacts of
business. It is the process that ensures that business
goals are pursued without compromising any of the
three elements.
Sustainable: Being aligned with the tenet of meeting
the needs of the present without compromising the
ability of future generations to meet their own needs.
Traditional Knowledge: This refers to any indigenous
technical, ecological, scientific, medical or cultural
knowledge which is not necessarily documented
but is in use by or generally known to communities.
Typical examples include antiseptic properties of
neem, turmeric, etc.
Transparent: Being open about decisions and
activities that affect society, the environment and
the economy, and the willingness of businesses to
communicate information in clear, accurate, honest,
timely and complete manner.
Value Chain: Refers to both the supply chain as well
as the value created by the distribution channel for
end-use customers. It also includes business partners
and those employed by value chain partners who
may work out of their own premises.
Vulnerable and Marginalized Groups: Group of
individuals who are unable to realize their rights or
enjoy opportunities due to adverse physical, mental,
social, economic, cultural, political, geographic or
health circumstances. These groups in India can be
identified on the basis, inter alia, of the following:
•	 Gender and transgender (women, girls et al.)
•	 Age (children, elderly et al.)
•	 Descent/identity/ethnicity (caste, religion,
scheduled castes, scheduled tribes, et al.)
•	 Occupation (displaced, landless small / marginal
farmers, migrant workers, et al.)
•	 Persons with disability
•	 Political or religious beliefs
Workplace: Place(s) where activities of the
organization are carried out in pursuance of its stated
objectives.
Work-life balance: Broad concept including proper
balancing of “work” (career and ambition) on one
hand and “life” (pleasure, leisure, family and spiritual
development) on the other. Related, though broader,
terms include “lifestyle balance” and “life balance”.
Chapter 1:
Introduction
National Guidelines on Responsible Business Conduct 11
The Ministry of Corporate Affairs (MCA), Government
of India, released a set of guidelines in 2011 called
the National Voluntary Guidelines on the Social,
Environmental and Economic Responsibilities of
Business (NVGs). This was expected to provide
guidance to businesses on what constitutes
responsible business conduct. In order to align the
NVGs with the Sustainable Development Goals
(SDGs) and the ‘Respect’ pillar of the United Nations
Guiding Principles (UNGP) the process of revision
of NVGs was started in 2015. After, revision and
updation, the new principles are called the National
Guidelines on Responsible Business Conduct
(NGRBC). As with the NVGs, the NGRBC has been
designed to assist businesses to perform above and
beyond the requirements of regulatory compliance.
Mandate & Rationale
The primary rationale for the update is to capture
key national and international developments in
the sustainable development agenda and business
responsibility field that have occurred since the
release of the NVGs in 2011. Some of the key drivers
of the NGRBC are given below:
1) The UN Guiding Principles for Business and
Human Rights (UNGPs): Through its resolution
17/4 of 16 June 2011, the UN Human Rights
Council endorsed the Guiding Principles on
Business and Human Rights: Implementing the
United Nations ‘Protect, Respect and Remedy’
Framework. The UNGPs are grounded in
recognition of, a) the State’s existing obligations
to respect, protect and fulfil human rights and
fundamental freedoms; b) the requirement of
business enterprises to respect human rights,
and c) the need for access to effective remedy
for those who are affected by adverse businessrelated human rights impacts or abuse. Since
their release, the UNGPs have become the
authoritative global standard for Business and
Human Rights. In further support of the UNGPs,
the UN Human Rights Council established
the UN Working Group (UNWG) and tasked it
with facilitating the global dissemination and
implementation of the UNGPs. The UNWG has
strongly encouraged all States to develop a
National Action Plan (NAP) as part of the States’
responsibility to disseminate and implement the
UNGPs.
2) UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs):
In September 2015, the UN General Assembly
adopted the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable
Development which established seventeen
Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs),
comprising targets and indicators, as well as
follow-up and review mechanisms. Significantly,
the SDGs recognize the role of business as a major
driver for economic growth and infrastructure,
whilst explicitly calling for businesses to act
in accordance with the UNGPs. The SDGs are
mapped against the NGRBC in Annexure 4.
3) Paris Agreement on Climate Change (2015):
This is an agreement under the United Nations
Framework for Climate Change (UNFCC) reached
in December 2015, in which countries have
committed to take steps to combat climate
change and adapt to its effects. India ratified
the agreement on 2nd October 2016,and
its commitments are called the National
Determined Contributions (NDCs). The Paris
Agreement also constitutes SDG 13.
4) Core Conventions 138 and 182 on Child Labour
by the International Labour Organization
(ILO): India, in June 2017, ratified ILO Core
Conventions 138 (minimum age of employment
of children) and ILO Core Convention 182 (worst
forms of child labour).
5) Annual Business Responsibility Reports
(ABRRs): In 2012, the Securities Exchange Board
of India (SEBI) amended the Listing Agreement
for companies listed in the stock exchanges in
India, and mandated the submission of an ABBRs
by the top 100 listed companies. The ABRR is
based on the Business Reporting Framework
of the NVGs, and SEBI has since extended this
requirement to the top 500 listed companies.
6) Companies’ Act 2013: Notified in the Gazette
of India on 30 August 2013, Section 135 of
the Companies Act 2013 requires companies
to undertake Corporate Social Responsibility
(CSR) initiatives in communities, and has since,
provided additional rules and guidance on the
areas and target groups of such interventions
in consistency with national socio-economic
priorities.
Applicability
The NGRBC are designed to be used by all businesses,
irrespective of their ownership, size, sector, structure
or location. It is expected that all businesses investing
or operating in India, including foreign multinational
corporations (MNCs) will follow these guidelines.
Correspondingly, the NGRBC also provide a useful
12 National Guidelines on Responsible Business Conduct
framework for guiding Indian MNCs in their overseas
operations, in addition to aligning with applicable
local national standards and norms governing
responsible business conduct.
Furthermore, the NGRBC reiterate the need to
encourage businesses to ensure that not only do they
follow these guidelines in business contexts directly
within their control or influence, but that they also
encourage and support their suppliers, vendors,
distributors, partners and other collaborators to
follow them.
Responsibility for Adoption
Whereas the NVGs made several references to
the critical role of the governance structure and
companies’ leadership in ensuring adoption and
review of the guidelines, the NGRBC has taken this
requirement a step further by identifying specific
aspects of each Principle as part of the duty and
responsibility of the highest governance structure
of the business to oversee the implementation and
adherence to these guidelines in their business.
While the highest governance structure, in the
case of companies and corporations is the Board,
the responsibility for adoption of the NGRBC in
proprietorships, partnerships, and other types of
business is assumed in the present context to rest with
the owner/s, partner/s, and/or, any other structure
responsible for the highest level of decision-making
and governance functions in the business.
It is worthwhile to emphasize that all Principles of
the NGRBC are equally important, inter-related, interdependent and non-divisible, and businesses should
adopt them to demonstrate their commitment to
being a responsible business, and accrue the full
benefits of sustainable business strategies.
Content and Structure
The NGRBC consist of two chapters and an expanded
set of annexures. While the Principles have been
updated, they have retained the articulation and
description of those in the NVGs. The connected
Core Elements enhance the operationalization of
each Principle. The details in the annexures provide
practical guidance to businesses on the adoption
and implementation of these guidelines. Keeping the
importance of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises
(MSMEs) in view, the business case for adoption of
NGRBC by the MSMEs is given in Annexure 2.
An updated Business Responsibility Reporting
Framework (BRRF) has been included for reporting
of actions taken by businesses vis-à-vis the Principles
and Core Elements. The BRRF is meant to serve
as an internal tool for companies to assess where
they are in their journey of responsible business
conduct and identify opportunities for improvement.
Guidance on how this framework may be used by
businesses is included as an annexure. Additionally,
the BRRF can serve as a framework for regulators
to develop disclosure formats (e.g. Annual Business
Responsibility Report (ABRR) mandated by the
Securities and Exchange Bureau of India (SEBI) based
on NVGs).
The last part of the NGRBC contains a set of useful
references and resources which businesses may
consult as part of their implementation efforts.
National Guidelines on Responsible Business Conduct 13
This chapter contains the nine thematic pillars of
business responsibility which are called Principles.
Each Principle is introduced as a statement and
followed by a narration of the essential aspects of
the Principle, referred to as the brief description.
A reading of each Principle and brief description
should provide a clear idea of the essential spirit and
intent of the Principle.
Each Principle is accompanied by a set of
requirements and actions that are essential to the
operationalization of the Principle, referred to as the
Core Elements. The information sought in Annexure 3
of the Guidelines (Business Responsibility Reporting
Framework) is derived from the Core Elements.
The Principles are interdependent, interrelated and
non-divisible, and businesses are urged to address
them holistically. Annexure 1 of the Guidelines
provides guidance to all businesses on the adoption
and implementation of the Principles. Furthermore,
businesses impact different stakeholders in different
ways. Therefore, while applying these principles,
businesses need to be sensitive to characteristics,
such as caste, creed, sex, race, ethnicity, age, colour,
religion, disability, socio-economic status or sexual
orientation. Though this has not been specifically
mentioned in the Principles and Core Elements,
businesses are expected to keep this in mind. Most
importantly, the ultimate responsibility for adoption
of the Principles rests with the highest governance
structure of the business.
Chapter 2:
Principles and
Core Elements
Principle 1:
Businesses should conduct
and govern themselves with
integrity, and in a manner that
is ethical, transparent, and
accountable.
National Guidelines on Responsible Business Conduct 15
Brief Description
This Principle recognizes that ethical behaviour
in all operations, functions and processes, is
the cornerstone of businesses guiding their
governance of economic, social and environmental
responsibilities.
The Principle emphasizes that disclosures on business
decisions and actions that impact stakeholders
form the fundamental basis of operationalizing
responsible business conduct and should be
accessible to all relevant stakeholders.
It recognizes that businesses are an integral part of
society and that they will hold themselves accountable
for the effective adoption, implementation, and the
making of disclosures on their performance with
respect to the Core Elements of these Guidelines.
The Principle further emphasizes that the governance
structure of the business should ensure this, in line
with SDG 16.
Core Elements
1. The governance structure should develop and
put in place structures, policies and procedures
that promote this Principle, prevent its
contravention and effect prompt and fair action
against any transgressions.
2. The Governance Structure should ensure
that the Principles of these Guidelines are
understood, adopted and implemented
throughout the operations of their business.
3. The Governance Structure should also promote
the adoption of this Principle across the value
chain of their business.
4. The Governance Structure should disclose and
communicate transparently and enable access
to information about the policies, procedures,
performance (financial and non-financial), and
decisions of their enterprise, that impact their
stakeholders, especially those that are most at
risk to business impacts and communities that
are vulnerable and marginalized.
5. The Governance Structure should take
responsibility for meeting all its statutory
obligations in line with the spirit of the law,
enabling fair competition and ensuring it treats
all its stakeholders in an equitable manner.
6. The Governance Structure should ensure that
the business avoids complicity with the actions
of any third party that violates any of the
Principles contained in these Guidelines.
7. The Governance Structure should put in place
appropriate structures, policies and procedures
to address conflicts of interest involving its
members, employees and business partners.
8. The Governance Structure should put in place
appropriate structures, codes, policies, and
procedures to ensure that the business does not
engage in illegal and abusive practices, bribery
and corruption, and ensure timely and fair
action in case such transgressions are detected.
9. The Governance Structure should ensure that
the business contributes to public finances by
timely and complete payment of all applicable
taxes in the letter and spirit of the laws and
regulations governing such payments.
16 National Guidelines on Responsible Business Conduct
Principle 2:
Businesses should
provide goods and
services in a manner that
is sustainable and safe.
National Guidelines on Responsible Business Conduct 17
Brief Description
This Principle recognizes the proposition of SDG 12,
that sustainable production and consumption are
interrelated, contribute to enhancing the quality of
life and towards protecting and preserving earth’s
natural resources.
The Principle further emphasizes that businesses
should focus on safety and resource-efficiency in the
design and manufacture of their products, and use
their products in a manner that creates value while
minimizing and mitigating its adverse impacts on
the environment and society through all stages of
its life cycle, from design to final disposal. Over time,
businesses should embrace the idea of circularity in
all its operations.
In order to do so, the Principle encourages businesses
to understand all material sustainability issues across
their product life cycle and value chain.
Core Elements
1. Businesses should, in designing, producing and
making available goods and services, endeavour
to ensure that resource-efficient and low-carbon
processes and technologies are deployed to
minimize adverse environmental and social
impacts.
2. Businesses should provide stakeholders across
the value chain with adequate information
about environmental and social issues and
impacts across product life cycle from design to
disposal. This may be done through appropriate
and relevant tools such as certifications, labels,
ratings and other communication and disclosure
platforms including reports, websites, etc.
3. Businesses should increasingly take responsibility
for the safe collection, reuse and recycling of their
products at life so as to build a circular economy
as a part of the notion of extended producer
responsibility that is increasingly becoming a
part of regulation in India and globally.
Principle 3:
Businesses should
respect and promote
the well-being of all
employees, including
those in their value
chains.
National Guidelines on Responsible Business Conduct 19
and provide access to appropriate grievance
redressal mechanisms.
4. Businesses should not use child labour, coercive
or forced labour, or any form of involuntary
labour, paid or unpaid.
5. Businesses should put systems and processes in
place to support the work-life balance of all its
employees.
6. Businesses should ensure fair, timely and
transparent payment of statutory wages of all its
employees, including contract and casual labour
without discrimination.
7. Businesses should aspire to pay fair living wages
to meet basic needs and economic security of all
employees, including casual and contract labour.
8. Businesses should provide a workplace
“environment that is safe, hygienic, accessible
to the” - there is no space between the words
differently abled and which upholds the dignity
of the employees. Businesses should engage and
consult with their employees on this provision.
9. Businesses should ensure continuous
upgradation of skill and competence of all
employees by providing access to necessary
learning opportunities, on an equal and nondiscriminatory basis. They should promote
career development through human resource
interventions.
10. Businesses should create systems and practices
to ensure a humane workplace free from,
violence and harassment (including sexual
harassment); a workplace where employees feel
safe and secure, with adequate provisions for
grievance redressal.
Brief Description
This Principle encompasses all policies and practices
relating to the equity, dignity and well-being, and
provision of decent work (as indicated in SDG 8), of all
employees engaged within a business or in its value
chain, without any discrimination and in a way that
promotes diversity. The principle recognizes that the
well-being of an employee also includes the wellbeing of her/his family.
Core Elements
1. The Governance Structure should ensure
that the business complies with all regulatory
requirements pertaining to its employees, and
that there are systems and processes in place to
enable this to be done by its value chain partners.
2. Businesses should ensure equal opportunities
at the time of recruitment, during the course
of employment, and at the time of separation
without any discrimination.
3. Businesses should promote and respect the
right to freedom of association, participation
of workers, and collective bargaining of all
employees including contract and casual labour,
Principle 4:
Businesses should
respect the interests of
and be responsive to all its
stakeholders.
National Guidelines on Responsible Business Conduct 21
Core Elements
1. Governance Structures should ensure that the
business acknowledges, assumes responsibility,
and is transparent about the impact of their
policies, decisions, products and associated
operations on all stakeholders, and the natural
environment.
2. Businesses should develop systems, processes
and mechanisms to identify its stakeholders,
understand their expectations and concerns,
define the purpose and scope of the engagement,
consult with them in developing policies and
processes that impact them, and commit
to resolving any differences and redressing
grievances in a just, fair and constructive manner.
3. Businesses should enable all stakeholders to
benefit fairly from the value generated by the
businesses, and any conflicts or differences
arising from the impact of business operations
or the sharing of the value generated by the
businesses should be resolved in a just, fair and
equitable manner.
Brief Description
This Principle recognizes that businesses operate in
an eco-system comprising a number of stakeholders,
beyond shareholders and investors, and that
their activities impact natural resources, habitats,
communities and the environment.
The Principle acknowledges that it is the responsibility
of businesses to ensure that the interests of all
stakeholders, especially those who may be vulnerable
and marginalized, are protected.
The Principle further recognizes that businesses have
a responsibility to maximize the positive impacts
and minimize and mitigate the adverse impacts of
its products, operations, and practices on all their
stakeholders.
22 National Guidelines on Responsible Business Conduct
Principle 5:
Businesses should
respect and
promote human
rights.
National Guidelines on Responsible Business Conduct 23
Brief Description
This Principle recognizes that human rights are rights
inherent to all human beings, and that everyone,
individually or collectively, is entitled to these rights,
without discrimination. It further recognizes that
human rights are inherent, inalienable, interrelated,
interdependent and indivisible.
The Principle is inspired, informed and guided by
the Constitution of India and the International Bill of
Rights and recognizes the primacy of the State’s duty
to protect and fulfil human rights.
The Principle is further informed and guided by the
UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights
in its articulation of the responsibility of businesses to
respect human rights. It affirms that the responsibility
of businesses to respect human rights requires that
it avoids causing or contributing to adverse human
rights impacts, and that it addresses such impacts
when they occur. The Principle urges businesses to
be especially responsive to such persons, individually
or collectively, who are most vulnerable to, or at risk
of, such adverse human rights impacts.
Core Elements
1. The Governance Structure should ensure that
the business undertakes to make its employees
aware of the human rights content of the
Constitution of India, relevant national laws and
policies, and the International Bill of Human
Rights and their application to businesses as
outlined in the United Nations Guiding Principles
for Business and Human Rights. It should further
ensure that the responsibility for addressing
such impacts is assigned to the appropriate level
and function within the business.
2. The Governance Structure should ensure that
the business has in place such policies, structures
and procedures that demonstrate respect for the
human rights of all stakeholders impacted by its
business. This includes carrying out human rights
due diligence to identify, prevent, mitigate and
account for how they address adverse human
rights impacts.
3. The Governance Structure should ensure that
their business, where it is causing, contributing
or otherwise linked to adverse human rights
impacts, takes corrective actions to address such
impacts.
4. Businesses should promote the awareness and
realization of human rights across its value chain.
5. Businesses should ensure that all individuals
and groups whose human rights are impacted
by them have access to effective grievance
redressal mechanisms.
24 National Guidelines on Responsible Business Conduct
Principle 6:
Businesses should
respect and make efforts
to protect and restore the
environment.
National Guidelines on Responsible Business Conduct 25
Brief Description
This Principle recognizes that environmental
responsibility is a prerequisite for sustainable
economic growth and for the well-being of society.
The Principle emphasizes that environmental issues
are interconnected at the local, regional and global
levels, which makes it imperative for businesses to
address issues like pollution, biodiversity conservation,
sustainable use of natural resources and climate
change (mitigation, adaptation and resilience) in a
just, comprehensive and systematic manner. These are
aligned with SDGs 11, 13, 14 and 15.
The Principle encourages businesses to assess
environment impacts of its products and operations
and take steps to minimize and mitigate its adverse
impacts where these cannot be avoided.
The Principle encourages businesses to adopt
environmental practices and processes that minimize
or eliminate the adverse impacts of its operations
and across the value chain.
The Principle encourages businesses to follow the
Precautionary Principle in all its actions.
Core Elements
1. The Governance Structure should ensure that
the business formulates appropriate policies,
procedures and structures to assess, measure
and address its adverse impacts on the
environment at all its locations, at all stages of its
life cycle from establishment to closure. Special
care should be taken where these impacts occur
in eco-sensitive areas.
2. Businesses should develop appropriate
strategies for sustainable and efficient use of
natural resources and manufactured materials,
giving due consideration to expectations and
concerns of all stakeholders.
3. Businesses should define measurable key
performance indicators and targets to monitor
their performance on environmental aspects
such as water, air, land-use, forest, energy,
materials, waste, biodiversity, built environment
and so on.
4. Businesses should focus on addressing climate
change through development of both mitigation
and adaptation measures, and build climate
resilience and in line with India’s Nationally
Determined Contributions to the Paris Climate
Change Agreement and the National/State
Action Plans on Climate Change.
5. Businesses should learn from industry best
practices for promoting reduction, reuse,
recycling and recovery of material and resources,
and encourage and motivate its stakeholders,
particularly consumers and business partners, to
do the same.
6. Businesses should seek to improve their
environmental performance by adopting
innovative, resource-efficient and low-carbon
technologies and solutions resulting in lower
resource footprint, lesser material consumption
and more positive impact on environment,
economy and society.
26 National Guidelines on Responsible Business Conduct
Principle 7:
Businesses, when engaging
in influencing public and
regulatory policy, should
do so in a manner that is
responsible and transparent.
National Guidelines on Responsible Business Conduct 27
Brief Description
This Principle recognizes that businesses operate
within specified national and international legislative
and policy frameworks, which guide their growth
and also provide for certain desirable restrictions and
boundaries.
The Principle recognizes the legitimacy of businesses
to engage with governments for redressal of a
grievance or for influencing public policy.
The Principle emphasizes that public policy advocacy
must expand public good.
Core Elements
1. The Governance Structure should ensure that
its advocacy positions are consistent with the
Principles contained in these Guidelines and
publicly disclosed.
2. Businesses should, to the extent possible,
undertake policy advocacy through trade and
industry chambers and associations, and other
similar collective platforms.
3. Businesses should ensure that its policy advocacy
positions promote fair competition and respect
for human rights.
28 National Guidelines on Responsible Business Conduct
Principle 8:
Businesses should promote
inclusive growth and equitable
development.
National Guidelines on Responsible Business Conduct 29
Brief Description
This Principle recognizes the challenges of social and
economic development faced by India, and builds
upon the national and local development agenda as
articulated in government policies and priorities. This
is particularly significant in zones affected by social
disharmony and low human development.
The Principle recognizes the value of the energy and
enterprise of businesses and encourages them to
innovate and contribute to the overall development
of the country with a specific focus on disadvantaged,
vulnerable and marginalized communities, as
articulated in Section 135 of the Companies Act,
2013.
The Principle also emphasizes the need for
collaboration amongst businesses, government
agencies and civil society in furthering this
development agenda in line with SDG 17.
The Principle reiterates that business success,
inclusive growth and equitable development are
interdependent.
Core Elements
1. The Governance Structure shall ensure that
the business takes appropriate actions to
minimize any adverse impacts that it has on
social, cultural and economic aspects of society
including arising from land acquisition and use,
construction of facilities and operations.
2. Businesses should assess, measure and
understand their impact on social, and economic
development, and respond through appropriate
action to minimize and mitigate its negative
impacts on society.
3. Businesses should innovate and invest in
products, technologies and processes that
promote the well-being of all segments of
society, including vulnerable and marginalized
groups.
4. Businesses should respond to national and
local development priorities and understand
the needs and concerns of local communities,
particularly vulnerable and marginalised
groups and in regions that are underdeveloped,
while designing and implementing their CSR
programmes.
5. Businesses should make efforts to minimize the
negative impacts of displacement of people
and disruption of livelihoods through their
business operations and where displacement is
unavoidable, this process must be undertaken
in a humane, participative, informed and
transparent manner, where just and fair
compensation is paid to those impacted.
6. Businesses should respect all forms of intellectual
property and traditional knowledge and make
efforts to ensure that benefits derived from their
knowledge are shared equitably.
30 National Guidelines on Responsible Business Conduct
Principle 9:
Businesses should
engage with and provide
value to their consumers
in a responsible manner.
National Guidelines on Responsible Business Conduct 31
Brief Description
This Principle is based on the fact that the basic aim
of a business entity is to provide goods and services
to its consumers that are safe to use, and in a manner
that creates value for both. .
The Principle recognizes that consumers have the
freedom of choice in the selection and usage of
goods and services, and that the enterprises will
strive to make available products that are safe,
competitively priced, easy to use and safe to dispose
of, for the benefit of their consumers.
The Principle also recognizes that businesses
should play a key role, along with other relevant
stakeholders, in mitigating the adverse impacts that
excessive consumption of its products may have on
the overall well-being of individuals, society and our
planet, in line with SDG 12.
Core Elements
1. Governance Structures should ensure that the
business minimizes and mitigates any adverse
impact of its goods and services on consumers,
the natural environment and society at large.
2. Businesses should ensure that they do not restrict
the freedom of choice and free competition in
any manner while designing, promoting and
selling their products.
3. Businesses should disclose all information
accurately, through labelling and other means,
including the risks to the individual, to society,
and to the planet, from the use of the products,
so that the consumers can exercise their freedom
to consume in a responsible manner.
4. Businesses should manage consumer data in a
way that does not infringe upon their right to
privacy.
5. Businesses should make consumers aware of,
and provide information and guidance to them
on, safe and responsible usage and disposal of
their products (including reuse and recycling),
and to eliminate over-consumption.
6. Businesses should promote and advertise their
products in ways that do not mislead or confuse
the consumers or violate any of the Principles in
these Guidelines.
7. Businesses should provide appropriate grievance
redressal mechanisms that are transparent and
accessible, to address consumer concerns and
feedback.
8. Businesses that provide essential services, e.g..
utilities, should enable universal access, including
to those whose services have been discontinued
for any reason, in a non-discriminatory and
responsible manner.
32 National Guidelines on Responsible Business Conduct
ANNEXURES
National Guidelines on Responsible Business Conduct 33
What does adoption mean?
The Principles and Core Elements contained in the
NGRBC are designed to enable businesses to conduct
themselves responsibly. Therefore, adopting these
guidelines refers to the integration of the Principles
and Core Elements into the core business strategy
and operations of an enterprise including its value
chain.
So, how will the Governance Structure of a business
know whether it has successfully integrated these
NGRBC? Here are some indicators:
•	 It should have in place, policies and guidance that
are approved at the highest level and cover all the
Principles.
•	 The key performance indicators of the business
should incorporate all the Principles of the NGRBC
and those Core Elements that significantly impact
or are impacted by the business.
•	 The operating procedures of the business should
also cover those Core Elements that significantly
impact or are impacted by the business.
The Business Responsibility Reporting Framework
(BRRF) provided in Annexure 3 of these guidelines
is designed as an internal tool to help businesses
determine how well aligned they are to the NGRBC.
Key Enablers
Experience suggests that there are some key enablers
of businesses that help them successfully integrate
sustainability principles into their core processes.
These include:
•	 Leadership commitment: The Governance
Structure of the business (Board in the case of
companies, owner(s)/partner(s) in other forms)
needs to be convinced that the success of the
business depends upon adopting the NGRBC. The
Chairman/CEO/Owner-Manager needs to play
a proactive role in convincing the Governance
Structure, which is most effectively done by
demonstrating the business benefit of being
responsible.
•	 Employee engagement: The employees too
must be convinced of the need to be
responsible. Again, the Governance Structure
and top management must communicate
this to all employees so that the Principles are
fully understood across the organization and
comprehensively implemented.
•	 Stakeholder engagement: Recognizing that
all stakeholders play a crucial role in a business’s
success, the top management of the company
must map out its stakeholders and proactively
engage and build strong relationships with them
on a consistent and continuous basis.
•	 Disclosure and reporting: In addition to
engaging with stakeholders including employees,
the proactive public disclosure by companies of
their impact on society and the environment is
also essential.
The Business Case for Adoption
That businesses are expected to conduct
themselves responsibly is an essential component
of the social contract between businesses
and society. Increasingly, businesses are also
recognizing that responsible business conduct
provides benefits to both the business and society
in the short term as well as in the long term. To help
businesses determine these benefits, they may use
a tool called the Business Case Matrix, provided in
Annexure 5. Every business can develop such a
matrix, in its own context, for each Core Element,
and thus determine which of them are a relatively
higher priority to the business. However, as stated
earlier, the Principles detailed in these guidelines
are interdependent, interrelated and nondivisible, and responsible businesses are expected
to adhere to all the Principles and Core Elements.
Annexure 1:
Guidance on Adoption of NGRBC
34 National Guidelines on Responsible Business Conduct
The Adoption Process
The flowchart given below summarizes the process
businesses may follow to adopt the NGRBC and
integrate them with the core business.
Some of the key steps are described in greater detail
below,
•	 Prioritizing the Core Elements: The first step
is that the business must identify those Core
Elements that are priority. As a rule of thumb, it is
highly likely that each Principle will have at least
one Core Element which is of higher priority for
the business. In order to do this prioritization, a
business must map all the Core Elements against:
1. Vision, mission and values: Those that
align with or contribute to these must be
considered priority.
2. Business success factors: These are
typically articulated in the business strategy.
3. Material sustainability issues: Many
businesses conduct a materiality analysis to
determine the environment and social issues
that are of high concern to its stakeholders
(ideally based on detailed stakeholder
engagements) and have a high impact on
business (based on detailed internal analysis
on key business success factors). The Core
Elements that align with or contribute to these
material sustainability issues must be treated
as high priority. In cases where the business
has not undertaken its own materiality
assessment, it should go by suggestions
found in globally accepted guidelines.
4. Legal and voluntary compliances: Every
business must know the specific laws and
regulations, current and emerging, which
pertain to each of the Core Elements. It is
stressed that compliance with the laws and
regulations of the land is non-negotiable. It
may also be noted that those businesses that
are part of a supply chain are also subject to
codes and standards that their buyers may
require them to comply with.
•	 Integrating Prioritized Core Elements into Core
Business: All the prioritized Core Elements must
then be integrated into core business strategy. In
order to do this, the business must:
1. Review its current policies and guidelines
to ensure that they cover all the prioritized
Core Elements. Where there are gaps, these
must be revised.
2. In the case of those Core Elements where
the Governance Structure has a role in
ensuring implementation, these policies
and guidelines must be endorsed by the
Governance Structure.
•	 Vision, mission and values
•	 Business success factors
•	 Material sustainability issues
•	 Laws, regulations, global covenants and good practices
•	 Map current policies, processes, guidelines vis-a-vis prioritized Core Elements
•	 Develop new policies where there are gaps (in consultation with stakeholders)
•	 Get policies endorsed by the Governance Structure
•	 Determine performance level for each prioritized Core Element
•	 Two performance levels suggested in the Guidelines: Essential and Leadership
•	 Select indicators for each prioritized Core Element that reflects the ambition
•	 Set targets for each indicator / issue
Prioritize
Core
Elements
Review and
develop
policies
Determine
Ambition
Set Targets
National Guidelines on Responsible Business Conduct 35
3. The business must determine what its
ambition is for each prioritized Core
Element, i.e. the performance level it wishes
to achieve for each. As mentioned earlier,
the base performance has to be compliance
with the law or regulation, but a business
may decide to be more ambitious and
take a leadership position by setting itself
a higher performance target. Annexure 3
discusses this in greater details and suggests
two performance levels – Essential and
Leadership.
4. Annexure 3 outlines the performance
indicators for relevant Core Elements at
these two levels – Essential and Leadership.
Businesses may select the indicators for their
prioritized Core Elements that reflect their
ambition and set 3-5 year targets.
Covering Value Chains
Value chains, encompassing all upstream sourcing
channels and downstream distribution channels, are
an integral part of all businesses, have a definitive
role in their success, and feature in their core
strategies. While integrating the NGRBC into their
core strategies and operations, businesses should
specifically encourage their adoption by their value
chain partners. Responsible businesses should be
well placed to understand the social, environment
and economic impact their value chain partners have
on their own enterprise as well as on the external
world.
Suggested steps for this include:
•	 Mapping the value chain: Businesses should
create a map of their direct (or Tier 1) value chain
partners and also cover, to the extent feasible,
indirect members of the value chain who
transact with the Tier 1 value chain partners. A
value chain map, which traces the key activities
involved in bringing a product from key inputs
to the consumer, should be created for all major
products of a business and requires collaboration
among all functions within the business which
work on the specific products. This should
provide visibility of physical locations, resource
dependencies, contractual/compliance
status, financial status and storage/logistics
arrangements for value chain partners as well
as any interdependencies between the partners.
The map will enable the business to ascertain
specific sustainability risks or opportunities
that may reside in its value chain which may be
different from those faced by the business itself.
•	 Prioritizing Core Elements for value chain
partners: Using the value chain map and as part
of the materiality assessment referred to earlier
in this annexure, businesses should prioritize
the Core Elements which are important for their
value chain partners to align themselves with.
This is best done in consultation with their major
Tier 1 partners so that ownership is built from
the beginning.
•	 Setting policy frameworks: Businesses
should have in place, policies and guidelines
that facilitate adoption of the NGRBC across
their value chain partners. These policies and
guidelines, where required, should be endorsed
by the Governance Structure of the business.
Again, this will be most effective when done in
consultation with their Tier 1 partners.
•	 Establishing engagement processes: The
prioritized Core Elements should be embedded
in processes for all points of engagement
with value chain partners including diligence,
selection, monitoring, periodic engagement,
feedback, and recognition of good practice.
Such processes are an effective means to build
actions around the prioritized Core Elements,
signal the business’ responsible intent, can be
used to incentivize integration of sustainability
principles across the value chain and, in the long
term, will enhance security of supply for the
business through a stronger relationship with
their partners.
•	 Cascading responsibility: Businesses should
recognize that their value chains partners, direct
and indirect, will range from large multinational
corporations to Micro, Small and Medium
Enterprises (further details on the role of MSMEs
in value chains are provided in Annexure 2),
who will have differentiated capacities and
considerations while adopting the Principles
and Core Elements. Businesses should guide
and support them in their efforts to adopt these
guidelines including collaborating with other
businesses. Businesses should also support their
Tier 1 partners to cascade this process to the
subsequent tiers in the value chain.
36 National Guidelines on Responsible Business Conduct
Significance of MSMEs for NGRBC
MSMEs contribute significantly to the GDP,
employment and social equity of India. They are the
2nd largest employer, after agriculture, employing
an estimated 100 million people which is almost ten
times that of the employment in the government
and large private sector put together. MSMEs are
present in almost all economic activities, ranging
from crafts to services and high-end industrial
activities. The product range spreads across sectors
including handicrafts, handlooms, textiles, garments,
leather, plastics, engineering, IT & IT enabled services,
hospitality, tourism, health care and several others. In
terms of markets, these enterprises are connected
with rural markets to global value chains. Together
they contribute to 37% of industrial output, 40% of
manufactured exports and 37.54% of the GDP for
2012-13 (Annual report of Ministry of MSME, Govt. of
India, 2015-16), with a considerable multiplier effect
on the economy.
Another remarkable feature of the MSMEs in India is
that almost two-third of them are naturally organized
around approximately 6000 geographic clusters, as a
part of local, regional, national and global value chains.
These clusters in groups of contiguous villages, blocks
or districts are known for a range of crafts, industrial
products or services.
MSMEs are, therefore, not a residual segment but a
very significant component of the larger social and
economic system, interconnected with a variety
of stakeholders. Hence, for the NGRBC to succeed,
widespread buy-in and adoption by the MSME sector
is necessary.
Classification of MSMEs
The Indian MSME sector can be broadly categorized
into two types:
1. MSMEs organized around local and regional value
chains: These comprise a large number of very
small enterprises and is estimated to contribute
between half to two-thirds of the total MSME
output. However, their share has been shrinking
over the years making way for integration across
national and global value chains.
2. MSMEs that are part of national & global value
chains: These can be further broken into three
distinct although not mutually exclusive subgroups:
a. Global value chains linked: This group
accounts for increasing exposure of MSMEs
to the global business environment since
the 1990s. Those in product categories like
garments, sports goods, furniture, chocolates,
beverages and other food products are well
exposed to individual and collective buyer
standards across environment, labour and
other issues, and are hence reasonably in
tune with various responsible business
guidelines, codes and standards.
b. Vendors/suppliers for large buyers with
domestic base: The MSMEs in this group are
linked across several sectors where global
players have significant manufacturing or
sourcing base in India, such as automobiles,
engineering goods, aerospace, defence,
railways and large retail companies. There
is also a wide range of MSME suppliers for
public procurement supplying to railways,
engineering companies, power sector
companies and a wide range of government
services across hospitals, schools, etc.
c. Emerging high growth start-ups: The
phenomenon of technology-based high
growth start-ups is beginning to surge.
This is significant not only for the growth
of individual enterprises but also with their
power to disrupt the way classical brickand-mortar enterprises function. With a
more positive socio-economic environment
for spawning start-ups with support from
academic institutions, private funding
for risk capital, and government support,
this group is fast emerging as a significant
one. To illustrate there are technologybased aggregators of MSMEs that include
independent taxi operators, e-commerce
platforms and credit facilitators. These
entrepreneurs have joined the bandwagon
of globally integrated Indian MSMEs.
The Business Case for MSMEs to adopt the NGRBC
There is no doubt that smaller businesses have fewer
resources and abilities to adhere to multiple laws,

Annexure 3:
Business Responsibility
Reporting Framework
National Guidelines on Responsible Business Conduct 39
SECTION A: GENERAL DISCLOSURES
Company details
1. Name of the Company:
2. Year of registration:
3. Corporate Identity Number (CIN) of the Company
(if applicable):
4. Corporate address, telephone, email and
website:
Products/services
5. Sector(s) that the business is engaged in
(industrial activity code):
6. Goods manufactured/services provided (top
three by revenue):
7. Brands (top five by respective share of market)
owned and percentage of revenue contributed:
Operations
8. Location of plants (in case of manufacturing
businesses)
a. National (Districts and states – top five by
employee strength):
b. International (Country – top three by
employee strength)):
9. Location of major offices (in case of service
businesses)
a. National (Districts and states – top five by
employee strength):
b. International (Country – top three by
employee strength)):
Employees
10. Number of permanent employees:
11. Contractual employees (seasonal, non-seasonal):
12. Temporary employees:
13. Percentage of women:
a. On the Governance Structure:
b. In top management, i.e. business and
function heads;
Associate entities
14. Names of subsidiary / associate companies;
15. Details of Trust/Society/Section 8 company to
further its CSR agenda:
a. Names;
b. Organization form (Trust, Society, Company)
and year of establishment;
c. Main objects/purpose;
d. Amounts and sources of funds received in
the reporting year;
16. Contact details of Nodal Officer for this report
(name, designation, email id, phone number).
SECTION B: MANAGEMENT AND PROCESS
DISCLOSURES
This section is aimed at helping businesses
demonstrate the structures, policies and processes
put in place towards adopting the Principles and
Core Elements.
Disclosure Questions P 1 P 2 P 3 P 4 P5 P 6 P 7 P8 P9
Policy and management processes
1. Names of the policy / policies that covers each Principle
2. Core Elements related to the Principle that the policy/
policies cover
3. Policy/ policies relating to each principle that has been
translated into guidelines and procedures
4. Extent to which manpower, planning and financial
resources have been allocated for the implementation
of the policy/ policies relating to each Principle
5. National and International codes and standards
adopted mapped to various Principles
Governance, leadership and oversight
6. Names of the above policies that have been approved
by the Board/top management
7. Name of the specified committee(s) of the Board/
Director/Officer and processes to oversee the
implementation of the policy/ policies
8. The process for board/ top management to review
performance against the above policies and
incorporating inputs (100 words)
40 National Guidelines on Responsible Business Conduct
Disclosure Questions P 1 P 2 P 3 P 4 P5 P 6 P 7 P8 P9
9. Process for board/ top management to review
compliance with statutory requirements of relevance
to the Principles and rectify any non-compliances (100
words)
10. Frequency of the reviews of the business’s alignment
with the Principles and Core Elements conducted by
the board/ top management
Stakeholder Engagement
11. Description of the process to identify your business’s
key stakeholders (100 words)
12. Description of the process to engage with your
stakeholders on the Principles (100 words)
13. Description of the processes to identify groups that are
vulnerable and marginalized stakeholders (100 words).
14. Description of the processes to identify issues related
to inclusion and impact of adopting the Principles on
vulnerable and marginalized stakeholders (100 words).
Communications
15. Description of process to communicate to stakeholders,
the impact of your policies, procedures, decisions and
performance that impact them (100 words)
16. Description of how the business communicates the
results of stakeholder engagement in the public
domain (100 words)
17. Description of the process of communicating
performance against these Guidelines to relevant
stakeholders (100 words)
18. Note on how disclosures and reporting helped in
improving business performance / strategy (50 words)
If answer to question (1) above is “No” i.e. not all Principles are covered by a policy, reasons to be stated:
Questions P 1 P2 P3 P4 P5 P6 P7 P8 P9
The company has not understood the Principles
The company is not at a stage where it finds
itself in a position to formulate and implement
the policies on specified Principles
The company does not have financial or
manpower resources available for the task
It is planned to be done within next 6 months
It is planned to be done within next 12 months
Any other reason (please specify)
SECTION C: PRINCIPLE-WISE PERFORMANCE DISCLOSURE
This section is aimed at helping businesses demonstrate their performance in integrating the Principles and
Core Elements with key processes and decisions. The information sought is categorized as “Essential” and
“Leadership”. While the Essential level is expected from every business that has adopted these Guidelines,
the Leadership level is expected of businesses which aspire to progress to a higher level in their quest to be
socially, environmentally, and ethically responsible.
National Guidelines on Responsible Business Conduct 41
PRINCIPLE 1
Essential Indicators Leadership Indicators
1. Month/year of last review by Governance
Structure/ top management of performance
of the business across the Principles and Core
Elements of the Guidelines?
2. % Coverage of leadership team by awareness
programmes on the Guidelines:
a. In reporting year
b. Total to date
3. % of suppliers and distributors (by value), in
the year:
a. Covered by awareness programmes for the
Guidelines?
b. Had responsible/sustainable business
policies in place?
4. Number of meetings/ dialogues with minority
shareholders that were organized in the year?
5. Number of complaints received on any aspect
of the NGRBC in the year from:
a. Shareholders/investors
b. Lenders
6. Number of the above complaints pending
resolution at close of year?
7. Value of non-disputed fines / penalties
imposed on your business by regulatory and
judicial institutions in the year?
8. Number of complaints / cases of corruption
and conflicts of interest that were registered in
the year?
9. Details of unmet obligations (fiscal, social,
etc.) arising out of any benefits or concessions
provided by the central, state, or local
governments (100 words).
1. % coverage of all employees by awareness
programmes for the Guidelines:
a. In reporting year
b. Total to date
2. % of suppliers and distributors (by value)
covered by social and environmental audits:
a. In reporting year
b. Total to date
3. Was report on responsible business conduct
made, in the year:
a. As per mandatory/global reporting
frameworks.
b. Available in the public domain.
c. Assured by a third party
4. Details of non-disputed fines/penalties
imposed on your business by regulatory and
judicial institutions in the year available in public
domain.
5. Provide examples (up to three) of corrective
action taken on the above fines/penalties
imposed.
6. Provide examples (up to three) of corrective
action taken on the complaints / cases of
corruption and conflicts of interest to prevent
recurrence.
PRINCIPLE 2
Essential Indicators Leadership Indicators
1. List top three goods /services (revenue in the
year) which incorporate environmental and social
concerns, risks, and/or opportunities in their design.
2. Details of investments in specific technologies to
improve the environmental and social impacts (top
three by value).
3. % of input material and services (by value), in the
year, sourced from suppliers adhering to internal or
external sustainability standards / codes / policies /
labels.
4. % of total raw material consumed in the year (by
value) that consisted of material that was recycled or
reused (provide details in 50 words):
a. <5%
b. between 5% and 25%,
c. > 25%.
5. Describe the process in place to safely collect,
reuse, recycle and dispose of your products at end-oflife (100 words)
1. For goods and services that incorporated
environmental and social concerns, give details of:
a. Resource use (energy, water, raw material)
per unit produced in the year.
b. Reduction in resource use covering
sourcing, production, and distribution in
the year.
c. Sustainability standards/codes/ labels
adhered to.
d. Product life cycle assessment completed.
2. Information on the impacts of your products across
the value chain communicated to:
a. To which stakeholder groups?
b. By which channels for each group?
c. At what frequency?
3. Provide examples (up to three) on how the
feedback received from stakeholders is used for
improvements?
42 National Guidelines on Responsible Business Conduct
PRINCIPLE 3
Essential Indicators Leadership Indicators
1. Complaints received on cases arising out of
discrimination:
a. Number received in the year
2. Number of the above complaints pending
resolution at end of the ear?
3. % of permanent employees who are members
of the employee association(s) recognized by
the management?
4. % of your establishments / value chain that
has been audited in the year for:
a. Child labour
b. Forced/involuntary labour
5. Number of cases of child labour in your
establishments/ value chains identified to date:
a. Resolved
b. Pending resolution
6. Number of cases of forced / involuntary
labour identified to date:
a. Resolved
b. Pending resolution
7. % of your employees that were paid above the
legal minimum wage in the last year?
8. Ratio of the highest salary paid to the
lowest salary paid amongst your permanent
employees?
9. Number of cases of delay in payment of
wages during the year:
a. Resolved
b. Pending resolution
10. Number of complaints related to harassment
to date:
a. Resolved
b. Pending resolution
11. Number of the following occurred during the
year:
a. Accidents at the workplace
b. Fatalities caused
c. Disability caused
12. % of employees (all categories) trained on
health and safety issues and measures:
a. In the year
b. Total to date
13. % of employees provided training and skill
upgradation:
a. In the year
b. Total to date
1. Categories of employees (list up to three)
supported by affirmative action, and has there
been any change from the previous year?
2. % of non-permanent employees that are
linked to any standing platform/association
3. % of children identified as employed in your
establishments / value chain that have been
remediated:
a. In reporting year
b. Total to date
4. % of forced/involuntary labour identified in
your establishments / supply remediated:
a. In reporting year
b. Total to date
5. % of your suppliers (by value) that paid
minimum wages to their employees last year
6. Examples of steps taken (up to three)
to prevent adverse consequences to the
complainant in the case of harassment cases.
7. % of supply chain partners (by value) that
were assessed for adherence to health and
safety practices.
8. % of accident-affected persons integrated
back into employment.
9. Describe the work-life balance issues (up to
three) that were brought up by employees (100
words).
10. Examples (up to three) of identified work-life
balance topics that have been implemented.
National Guidelines on Responsible Business Conduct 43
PRINCIPLE 4
Essential Indicators Leadership Indicators
1. List stakeholder groups that have been
identified as key to your business?
2. Positions / departments / functions
responsible for engagement with each
stakeholder category identified above?
3. Number of stakeholder groups that were
formally engaged on environment and social
issues in the last year?
4. % of input material and services (by value),
in the year, that were procured from local and
small vendors / producers?
1. Frequency of engagement with each
stakeholder group?
2. Examples (up to three) of how the business has
incorporated inputs from stakeholders.
3. List of the vulnerable and marginalized
groups in each stakeholder group.
4. Examples of decisions and actions taken
by the business to address the interests of
vulnerable/marginalized groups.
PRINCIPLE 5
Essential Indicators Leadership Indicators
1. % of employees that have been provided
training on human rights issues:
a. In the year
b. Total to date
2. Employee categories that are covered by
the human rights policies of the business –
Permanent/Contract/Casual.
3. Number of business agreements and
contracts with third party partners that were
reviewed in the year, to avoid complicity with
adverse human rights impacts in the previous
year.
4. Stakeholders groups governed by the
grievance committee for human rights issues.
5. Number of stakeholders that reported
human rights related grievances and/or
complaints:
a. Received in the year
b. Pending resolution
1. % of contractual employees and value
chain partners that have been made aware /
provided training on human rights issues:
a. In the year
b. Total to date
2. External stakeholder groups and
representatives that are covered by the human
rights policies of the business?
3. Stakeholder groups that have been made
aware of the grievance mechanisms for
human rights issues:
a. During the year
b. Total to date
4. List (up to three) corrective actions taken to
eliminate complicity with adverse human rights
impacts in the last year.
5. Provide (up to two) examples of a business
process being modified / introduced as a
result of addressing human rights grievances/
complaints.
6. Provide details of the scope and coverage of
any human rights due-diligence conducted
during the year.
44 National Guidelines on Responsible Business Conduct
PRINCIPLE 6
Essential Indicators Leadership Indicators
1. Material risks of potential or actual adverse
impacts upon the environment and
communities by the business:
a. Identified in the year
b. Mitigation and adaptation measures put in
place for the above environmental risks?
2. Good practices (up to three) in reduction,
recycling, and reuse initiatives that contributed
to lowering the adverse environmental footprint
of your business activities.
3. Examples of any collective action by your
business with other businesses / NGOs /
government agencies / international partners /
development institutions undertaken to address
any of the environmental risks opportunities
identified above.
4. Details of any adverse orders in respect of any
show cause / legal notices from CPCB/NGT/SPCB
received during the year.
1. Information on environmental impact
assessments undertaken in the year:
a. Have the results been communicated in the
public domain?
b. Provide details of any actions taken to
mitigate any negative social impacts.
2. Risk management strategies and measures for
each material environmental risk identified for
the business:
a. Details of measures (100 words).
b. Targets and achievement values.
3. Details of your specific contribution to
India’s Nationally Determined Contributions
(submitted at UNFCCC COP21 in 2015)
4. New businesses-products-services created
to address the material environmental risks
identified:
a. Information on businesses created (100
words)
b. % of revenue contributed by these
5. Details of good practices cited in reduction,
recycling, and reuse initiatives benchmarked
against industry best practice (100 words).
PRINCIPLE 7
Essential Indicators Leadership Indicators
1. Review public policy advocacy positions by
the governance structure for consistency with
Principles of these Guidelines:
a. Frequency
b. Month/year of last review.
2. Names of trade and industry chambers and
associations that you are a member/affiliate of.
3. Details of any adverse orders received from
regulatory authorities for anti-competitive
conduct by your business.
1. The public policy positions available in the
public domain.
2. Examples (up to three) of any policy changes
in the past year as a result of your advocacy
efforts.
3. Details of corrective action for anticompetitive conduct, taken by the business
based on adverse orders from regulatory
authorities.
4. Monetary contributions (if any) that have been
made to political parties.
National Guidelines on Responsible Business Conduct 45
PRINCIPLE 8
Essential Indicators Leadership Indicators
1. Social impact assessments of your business
operations conducted:
a. Number completed in the year?
b. Number conducted by an independent external
agency.
2. Examples of products, technologies, processes
or programmes (up to three) that contribute to
the benefit of the vulnerable and marginalized
sections of society
3. With respect to projects during the year for which
R&R is applicable:
a. Number of persons that were affected displaced
by these projects?
b. Gross amount paid out to project-affected and
displaced persons?
4. Grievances / complaints received from local
community:
a. Number received during the year
b. Number pending resolution
5. Details of investments (top three by value) in regions
which are underdeveloped (100 words).
6. Examples of goods and services up to 3) that
incorporate local traditional knowledge.
7. Details of adverse orders or judgments in
intellectual property rights disputes related to
traditional knowledge during the year (100 words).
8. Summary of the key themes covered by CSR
initiatives (as per Section 135 of Companies Act 2013)
or linked to the CSR Policy of the business (up to 100
words).
1. With respect to these social impact assessments:
a. Results made available in the public domain
b. Details of any actions taken to mitigate any
negative social impacts (100 words).
2. Numbers benefitting from such beneficial products,
technologies or processes.
3. With respect to projects during the year for which
R&R is applicable:
a. Was the R&R package developed in consultation
with project-affected people?
b. Information on gross amounts, maid available in
the public domain
4. Channels/platforms used to communicate
information regarding resolution of grievances /
complaints from communities.
5. Examples (up to three) of economic and social value
addition in these underdeveloped regions (100
words).
6. Examples where benefits of this local traditional
knowledge being used by the business are shared
with the community.
7. Number of beneficiaries covered under your CSR
projects (as per Section 135 of Companies Act 2013),
disaggregated by the vulnerable and marginalized
group categories.
8. Examples of how the impact of your community
initiatives contribute to local and national
development indicators?
PRINCIPLE 9
Essential Indicators Leadership Indicators
1. Examples (up to three) where adverse impacts of
goods and services of your business have been raised
in public domain.
2. % by value of goods and services of the business that
carry information about:
a. Environmental and social parameters relevant to
the product.
b. Safe and responsible usage.
3. Number of consumer complaints in respect of data
privacy:
a. Received during the year.
b. Pending resolution.
4. Number of consumer complaints in respect of
advertising:
a. Received during the year.
b. Pending resolution.
5. Number of consumer complaints in respect of
delivery of essential services:
a. Received during the year.
b. Pending resolution.
1. Corrective actions taken on adverse impacts of
goods and services of your business:
a. Details (100 words).
b. Communicated in the public domain.
2. List of national-international product labels /
certifications being used by the business.
3. Channels platforms where information on goods
and services of the business can be accessed.
4. Steps taken to inform and educate vulnerable
and marginalized consumers about safe and
responsible usage of products (100 words).
5. On complaints received in respect of data privacy
and advertising, indicate what corrective actions
were taken to ensure that these do not get repeated
(100 words).
6. Processes in place to inform consumers of any risk of
disruption/discontinuation of essential services (100
words).
Signature of the designated official responsible for this report.
Sd/-
Name: Designation:
Address:
Telephone number:
Email id:
-----------------
46 National Guidelines on Responsible Business Conduct
Annexure 4:
SDGs Mapped Against NGRBC
The chart demonstrates the alignment between the SDGs and relevant Principles of the NGRBC. It may be
noted that this is indicative.
National Guidelines on Responsible Business Conduct 47
The Business Case Matrix (BCM) is designed as a tool to map the business benefits of integrating these
Guidelines. The BCM here highlights some significant benefits which may accrue to businesses from integrating
the Principles from these Guidelines. This is not exhaustive and it is critical for each business to assess the
benefits in their respective contexts.
Principle
Revenue
growth and
market access
Cost savings and
productivity Access to capital
Risk
management/
license to
operate
Human capital
Brand
value/
reputation
1. Integrity,
Ethics,
transparency,
accountability
New customers;
Business partner
of choice
Good governance
practices are
attractive to
investors, banks,
financial markets
Positively seen
by communities,
NGOs, local
governments,
regulators
Attract and
retain quality
employees
Positively
seen by
customers,
regulators,
media
2. Safe and
sustainable
goods and
services
New customers;
Customer loyalty
Efficiency gains in
supply chain and
production
Lower risk
perception is
attractive to
investors and
lenders
Reduced risk
of action from
regulators
and consumer
activists
Attract and
retain quality
employees
Enhanced
brand value
3. Well-being of
employees
Increased
productivity; high
morale; reduced
absenteeism
Improved labour
relations leading
to less disruptions
Attract and
retain quality
employees
Employer of
choice
4. Respect and
responsiveness to all
stakeholders
New customers;
Customer loyalty
Efficiency
gains across
procurement,
production
distribution, aftersales
Good governance
practices are
attractive to
investors and
banks
Positively seen
by stakeholders
- communities,
NGOs,
governments,
regulators
Attract and
retain quality
employees
Positively
seen by
customers,
regulators,
media
5. Respect and
promote
Human rights
Access to
international
capital and
developed
country markets
Enhanced
productivity
Good governance
practices are
attractive to
investors, banks,
financial markets
Positively seen
by communities
and NGOs; Lower
risk of noncompliance
Attract and
retain quality
employees
Positively
seen by
customers,
regulators,
media
6. Respect,
protect and
restore the
Environment
Business partner
of choice,
especially for
sustainabilityoriented buyers
Lower operating
costs in the long
term; less danger
of“externalities”
emerging as
liabilities.
Lower risk
perception is
attractive to
investors, banks,
financial markets
Positively seen
by communities,
NGOs,
governments,
regulators; Lower
risk of noncompliance
Attract and
retain quality
employees
Positively
seen by
customers,
regulators,
media
7. Responsible
and
transparent
policy
advocacy
Positively seen
by governments,
regulators, NGOs
Positively
seen by
customers,
regulators,
media
8. Promote
inclusive
growth and
equitable
development
Potential
for market
expansion and
acquisition of
new customers
Lower costs of
ensuring business
continuity
Lower risk
perception is
attractive to
investors and
lenders
Enhanced
governmental
support to
initiatives;
improved
relations with
communities
Potential source
of trained
employees
Positively
seen by
customers,
regulators,
media
9. Provide value
to consumer
responsibly
New customers;
Customer loyalty
Growth prospects
attractive to
investors
Lower risk of
consumer action
Talent will be
drawn towards
growing firm
Customers
perceive
brand
and firm
favourably

