SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA (LISTING OBLIGATIONS
AND DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS) REGULATIONS, 2015

(f) Responsibilities of the board of directors: The board of directors of the listed entity
shall have the following responsibilities:
(i) Disclosure of information:
(1) Members of board of directors and key managerial personnel shall
disclose to the board of directors whether they, directly, indirectly, or on
behalf of third parties, have a material interest in any transaction or
matter directly affecting the listed entity.
(2) The board of directors and senior management shall conduct themselves
so as to meet the expectations of operational transparency to stakeholders
while at the same time maintaining confidentiality of information in order
to foster a culture of good decision-making.

Corporate Governance.
72. (1) The listed entity shall comply with the corporate governance provisions as
applicable in its home country and other jurisdictions in which its equity shares are
listed.
(2)The listed entity shall submit to stock exchange a comparative analysis of the corporate
governance provisions that are applicable in its home country and in the other jurisdictions
in which its equity shares are listed along with the compliance of the same vis-à-vis the
corporate governance requirements applicable under regulation 17 to regulation 27, to
other listed entities. 

SCHEDULE II: CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
PART A: MINIMUM INFORMATION TO BE PLACED BEFORE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS
[See Regulation 17(7)]
A. Annual operating plans and budgets and any updates.
B. Capital budgets and any updates.
C. Quarterly results for the listed entity and its operating divisions or business segments.
D. Minutes of meetings of audit committee and other committees of the board of directors.
E. The information on recruitment and remuneration of senior officers just below the level
of board of directors, including appointment or removal of Chief Financial Officer and
the Company Secretary.
F. Show cause, demand, prosecution notices and penalty notices, which are materially
important.
G. Fatal or serious accidents, dangerous occurrences, any material effluent or pollution
problems.
H. Any material default in financial obligations to and by the listed entity, or substantial
non-payment for goods sold by the listed entity.
I. Any issue, which involves possible public or product liability claims of substantial
nature, including any judgement or order which, may have passed strictures on the
conduct of the listed entity or taken an adverse view regarding another enterprise that
may have negative implications on the listed entity.
J. Details of any joint venture or collaboration agreement.
K. Transactions that involve substantial payment towards goodwill, brand equity, or
intellectual property.
L. Significant labour problems and their proposed solutions. Any significant development
in Human Resources/ Industrial Relations front like signing of wage agreement,
implementation of Voluntary Retirement Scheme etc.
M. Sale of investments, subsidiaries, assets which are material in nature and not in normal
course of business.
N. Quarterly details of foreign exchange exposures and the steps taken by management to
limit the risks of adverse exchange rate movement, if material.
O. Non-compliance of any regulatory, statutory or listing requirements and shareholders
service such as non-payment of dividend, delay in share transfer etc.

B. Management Discussion and Analysis:
1. This section shall include discussion on the following matters within the limits set
by the listed entity’s competitive position:
(a) Industry structure and developments.
(b) Opportunities and Threats.
(c) Segment–wise or product-wise performance.
(d) Outlook
(e) Risks and concerns.
(f) Internal control systems and their adequacy.
(g) Discussion on financial performance with respect to operational performance.

136 Inserted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018,
w.e.f. 1.4.2019.
96
(h) Material developments in Human Resources / Industrial Relations front,
including number of people employed.
137[(i) details of significant changes (i.e. change of 25% or more as compared to
the immediately previous financial year) in key financial ratios, along with
detailed explanations therefor, including:
(i) Debtors Turnover
(ii) Inventory Turnover
(iii) Interest Coverage Ratio
(iv) Current Ratio
(v) Debt Equity Ratio
(vi) Operating Profit Margin (%)
(vii) Net Profit Margin (%)
or sector-specific equivalent ratios, as applicable.
(j) details of any change in Return on Net Worth as compared to the immediately
previous financial year along with a detailed explanation thereof.]

C. Corporate Governance Report: The following disclosures shall be made in the
section on the corporate governance of the annual report.
(1) A brief statement on listed entity’s philosophy on code of governance.
(2) Board of directors:
(a) composition and category of directors (e.g. promoter, executive, nonexecutive, independent non-executive, nominee director - institution
represented and whether as lender or as equity investor);
(b) attendance of each director at the meeting of the board of directors and the
last annual general meeting;
(c) number of other board of directors or committees in which a directors is a
member or chairperson138[, and with effect from the Annual Report for the
year ended 31st March 2019, including separately the names of the listed
entities where the person is a director and the category of directorship];
(d) number of meetings of the board of directors held and dates on which held;
(e) disclosure of relationships between directors inter-se;
(f) number of shares and convertible instruments held by non- executive
directors;
(g) web link where details of familiarisation programmes imparted to
independent directors is disclosed.
139[(h) A chart or a matrix setting out the skills/expertise/competence of the

137 Inserted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018,
w.e.f. 1.4.2019.
138 Inserted ibid., w.e.f from the date specified in the provision.
139 Inserted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018,
w.e.f. 1.4.2019.
97
board of directors specifying the following:
(i) With effect from the financial year ending March 31, 2019, the
list of core skills/expertise/competencies identified by the board of
directors as required in the context of its business(es) and sector(s) for
it to function effectively and those actually available with the board;
and
(ii) With effect from the financial year ended March 31, 2020, the
names of directors who have such skills / expertise / competence
(i) confirmation that in the opinion of the board, the independent directors
fulfill the conditions specified in these regulations and are independent of the
management.
(j) detailed reasons for the resignation of an independent director who resigns
before the expiry of his tenure along with a confirmation by such director that
there are no other material reasons other than those provided.]
(3) Audit committee:
(a) brief description of terms of reference;
(b) composition, name of members and chairperson;
(c) meetings and attendance during the year.
(4) Nomination and Remuneration Committee:
(a) brief description of terms of reference;
(b) composition, name of members and chairperson;
(c) meeting and attendance during the year;
(d) performance evaluation criteria for independent directors.
(5) Remuneration of Directors:
(a) all pecuniary relationship or transactions of the non-executive directors visà-vis the listed entity shall be disclosed in the annual report;
(b) criteria of making payments to non-executive directors. alternatively, this
may be disseminated on the listed entity’s website and reference drawn
thereto in the annual report;
(c) disclosures with respect to remuneration: in addition to disclosures required
under the Companies Act, 2013, the following disclosures shall be made:
(i) all elements of remuneration package of individual directors
summarized under major groups, such as salary, benefits, bonuses,
stock options, pension etc;
(ii) details of fixed component and performance linked incentives, along
with the performance criteria;
(iii) service contracts, notice period, severance fees;
(iv) stock option details, if any and whether issued at a discount as well as
the period over which accrued and over which exercisable.
(6) Stakeholders' grievance committee:
(a) name of non-executive director heading the committee;
(b) name and designation of compliance officer;
(c) number of shareholders’ complaints received so far;
(d) number not solved to the satisfaction of shareholders;
(e) number of pending complaints.
98
(7) General body meetings:
(a) location and time, where last three annual general meetings held;
(b) whether any special resolutions passed in the previous three annual general
meetings;
(c) whether any special resolution passed last year through postal ballot –
details of voting pattern;
(d) person who conducted the postal ballot exercise;
(e) whether any special resolution is proposed to be conducted through postal
ballot;
(f) procedure for postal ballot.
(8) Means of communication:
(a) quarterly results;
(b) newspapers wherein results normally published;
(c) any website, where displayed;
(d) whether it also displays official news releases; and
(e) presentations made to institutional investors or to the analysts.
(9) General shareholder information:
(a) annual general meeting - date, time and venue;
(b) financial year;
(c) dividend payment date;
(d) the name and address of each stock exchange(s) at which the listed
entity's securities are listed and a confirmation about payment of annual
listing fee to each of such stock exchange(s);
(e) stock code;
(f) market price data- high, low during each month in last financial year;
(g) performance in comparison to broad-based indices such as BSE sensex,
CRISIL Index etc;
(h) in case the securities are suspended from trading, the directors report shall
explain the reason thereof;
(i) registrar to an issue and share transfer agents;
(j) share transfer system;
(k) distribution of shareholding;
(l) dematerialization of shares and liquidity;
(m)outstanding global depository receipts or american depository receipts or
warrants or any convertible instruments, conversion date and likely
impact on equity;
(n) commodity price risk or foreign exchange risk and hedging activities;
(o) plant locations;
(p) address for correspondence.
140[(q) list of all credit ratings obtained by the entity along with any revisions
thereto during the relevant financial year, for all debt instruments of such entity
or any fixed deposit programme or any scheme or proposal of the listed entity
involving mobilization of funds, whether in India or abroad.]
(10) Other Disclosures:

140 Inserted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018,
w.e.f. 1.4.2019.
99
(a) disclosures on materially significant related party transactions that may
have potential conflict with the interests of listed entity at large;
(b) details of non-compliance by the listed entity, penalties, strictures
imposed on the listed entity by stock exchange(s) or the board or any
statutory authority, on any matter related to capital markets, during the
last three years;
(c) details of establishment of vigil mechanism, whistle blower policy, and
affirmation that no personnel has been denied access to the audit committee;
(d) details of compliance with mandatory requirements and adoption of the
non-mandatory requirements;
(e) web link where policy for determining ‘material’ subsidiaries is disclosed;
(f) web link where policy on dealing with related party transactions;
(g) disclosure of commodity price risks and commodity hedging activities.
141[(h) Details of utilization of funds raised through preferential allotment or
qualified institutions placement as specified under Regulation 32 (7A).
(i) a certificate from a company secretary in practice that none of the directors
on the board of the company have been debarred or disqualified from being
appointed or continuing as directors of companies by the Board/Ministry of
Corporate Affairs or any such statutory authority.
(j) where the board had not accepted any recommendation of any committee of
the board which is mandatorily required, in the relevant financial year, the same
to be disclosed along with reasons thereof:
Provided that the clause shall only apply where recommendation of /
submission by the committee is required for the approval of the Board of
Directors and shall not apply where prior approval of the relevant committee
is required for undertaking any transaction under these Regulations.
(k) total fees for all services paid by the listed entity and its subsidiaries, on a
consolidated basis, to the statutory auditor and all entities in the network
firm/network entity of which the statutory auditor is a part.]
142[(l) disclosures in relation to the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace
(Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013:
a. number of complaints filed during the financial year
b. number of complaints disposed of during the financial year
c. number of complaints pending as on end of the financial year.]
(11) Non-compliance of any requirement of corporate governance report of subparas (2) to (10) above, with reasons thereof shall be disclosed.
(12) The corporate governance report shall also disclose the extent to which the
discretionary requirements as specified in Part E of Schedule II have been
adopted.
(13) The disclosures of the compliance with corporate governance requirements
specified in regulation 17 to 27 and clauses (b) to (i) of sub-regulation (2) of
regulation 46 shall be made in the section on corporate governance of the
annual report.
