Environmental Reporting Guidelines
2018
Ministry of the Environment

Chapter.1: Basic information of environmental reporting
✓ This chapter contains general information intended to promote the understanding of the
environmental report and relevant key information among users of the environmental report.
1. Basic requirements for environmental reporting
✓ This is information on the basic requirements for environmental reporting that stakeholders should
know when making use of the environmental report. It is written at the very top of the environmental
report or in another easy-to-find location.
✓ If environmental reporting is conducted within a securities report, sustainability report, or similar,
and this environmental section’s content is equivalent to the basic requirements for environmental
reporting, the basic requirements section may be omitted from the environmental report.
Items to be reported
□ Boundary of the reporting entity
□ Reporting period for information provided
□ Reporting standards, guidelines or the like
□ Overview of the environmental report
Explanation
✓ “Boundary of the reporting entity” refers to the corporate group that comprises all entities reported
in the consolidated financial statements in financial reporting. Therefore, if the entity conducting
environmental reporting is the parent of the corporate group, the “Boundary of the reporting entity”
generally includes the entity (the parent) and the entities it controls (the subsidiaries) .
✓ “Reporting period for information provided” refers to the time period for which the environmental
report was created. In the interest of timeliness, it is important to conduct environmental reporting
regularly, at least once per year. It is preferred that the period covered by the environmental report
be the same as the accounting period covered by the financial report (i.e. the fiscal year).
✓ For “Reporting standards, guidelines or the like” describe the names of the standards, guidelines or
things like that applied for environmental reporting.
✓ If existing standards or guidelines have been partially applied for preparing the report, it is necessary
to explain specifically what portion has been applied in order to avoid causing misunderstanding
among users of the environmental report.
✓ If existing standards or guidelines have been used for reference but not even partially applied,
9
indicate that the reporting guidelines applied are “voluntary standards” or otherwise indicate this fact
in a way that is clear to the reader.
✓ In the “Overview of the environmental report,” explain that, for example, the environmental report is
presented across multiple business reporting documents (e.g., sustainability report, annual report,
securities report, corporate governance report, etc.) or the report is presented in multiple formats (e.g.
booklet, website, etc.), using diagrams or other easily intelligible methods to convey the
interrelationships between those various components.
10
2. Trends in key performance indicators
✓ The entity should present a summary of the trends in key performance indicators to enable users of
the environmental report to understand performance change of the entity’s activities over time.
Item to be reported
□ Trends in major performance indicators
Explanation
✓ The entity develops a summary consisting of movements and changes in 2 or 3 key performance
indicators for environmental issues chosen by the entity from among major performance indicators
for environmental issues determined by the entity to be of materiality. These 2 or 3 performance
indicators are listed for the last 3 to 5 continuous years alongside major business indicators such as
the amount of consolidated sales.
✓ If environmental information is disclosed in the annual report, sustainability report, or similar
document, these major performance indicators may be listed alongside performance indicators for
the entity’s major social issues, as well.
11
Chapter.2: Items to be reported in environmental reporting
✓ The objective of environmental reporting to clearly convey how, as society undergoes a process of
transitioning to a sustainable society, the entity is working on material environmental issues in the
short, medium, and long term, and how the entity will work on these issues in the future.
✓ To that end, it is desirable to beyond simple historical results data and also include specific, clear
information pertaining to governance, business models, and other organizational issues as well as to
the direction of management strategy, making for a forward-looking and dynamic description of the
entity’s status.
✓ Chapter 2’s reporting items are to be reported in the order that the reporting entity judges to be
appropriate, taking into account the entity’s corporate philosophy, business environment, business
characteristics, and other factors. The order of explanation in these guidelines need not be the same
as the order used in the environmental report itself.
✓ In order to avoid redundancy, as with governance issues, information that is reported in business
reporting documents other than the environment report can be omitted from the environment report
with a clear indication of where the information is record.
✓ Of course, in the interest of making the documents easier to search for users of the information, it is
also helpful to include in the environmental report the full text or a summary of information that has
already been reported in other business reporting documents.
✓ In either case, the decision of what disclosure method to use will be left to the judgment of the entity
conducting environmental reporting.
✓ Of the items to be reported in environmental reporting, item “1. Management commitment
statements” through item “9. Identification of material environmental issues” are common to all
entities. The next item, “10. The entity’s material environmental issues,” will differ from entity to
entity in terms of the type of material environmental issue(s) listed and the boundary of reporting
conducted. This is because for item 10, each entity evaluates the direct and indirect severe impact of
their activities on the environment and determines what information will be disclosed.
12
1. Top management's commitments
✓ Addressing material environmental issues are the entity's voluntary action and whether its results is
good or bad will be ultimately judged by the entity's stakeholders. As their judgement processes
begin with reviewing the top management's commitments, policies for addressing material
environmental issues selected by the entity should be clearly stated to the public, as the top
management commitments, in the name of the top management.
Items to be reported
□ Top management's commitments on the entity’s response to material environmental issues
Explanation
✓ If an entity attempts to achieve sustainable growth as society undergoes a process of transitioning to
a sustainable society, it is essential that the entity establishes a business model that is appropriate for
a sustainable society as it also creates shared value with society. Response to material environmental
issues is pursued within this process, and it is through the results of those initiatives that entities
contribute to the achievement of a sustainable society.
✓ Entities conduct business activities using not only financial capital contributed by investors and
creditors, but using the natural environment, manpower, social infrastructure, and other types of
capital, as well. Therefore, management has a moral obligation to explain to the providers of this
capital how this capital was used. Environmental reporting is a way of fulfilling this obligation with
regard to an entity’s use of the natural environment.
✓ Therefore, in conducting environmental reporting, the top management must provide a clear,
specific explanation in their own words of their basic approach and policy towards addressing
material environmental issues, including in their performance indicators, targets, and other
information in addition to making clear declarations regarding the execution of those policies. In this
sense, top management’s commitment on this topic goes beyond and has a deeper significance than
simple greetings.
✓ Moreover, because the determination of whether these commitments are appropriate or not is left to
the judgment of the stakeholders who use the environmental report, the top management’s
commitments must be written in a clear and easy-to-understand way.
✓ The top management’s commitments should explain, with links to the entity's forward-looking
information to the greatest extent possible, how the response to material environmental issues is
13
positioned within the entity’s long-term vision and what type of connection that response has to the
entity’s strategy and planning.
14
2. Governance
✓ The transition to a sustainable society will occur over a long period. If over that period, the entity
will attempt to consistently and continuously address material environmental issues as an
organization, a sound governance structure is essential.
Items to be reported
□ The entity’s governance structure
□ Name of the manager responsible for material environmental issues
□ The roles of the board of directors and the board of executive officers in the management of material
environmental issues
Explanation
✓ The objective of governance-related reporting is for the entity’s board of directors to explain how
they view and are addressing, or attempting to address, material environmental issues and related
risks and opportunities.
✓ For “the entity’s governance structure,” the entity explains its organizational structure with respect
to corporate governance.
✓ However, the purpose of governance is to enable sustainable entity growth by allowing stockholders
to monitor the board of directors’ activities. To this end, in explaining governance it is important to
clarify how the board of directors is contributing to the response to material environmental issues.
✓ The manager responsible for material environmental issues refers to the highest-ranking manager
who oversees all environmental issue-related matters at the entity.
✓ If the board of directors has transferred supervisory authority over material environmental issues to
an environmental affairs committee (incl. a CSR committee, ESG committee, sustainability
committee, etc.), or if material environmental issues are managed within an environment
management system, the entity explains that fact and whether the board of directors receives
information on the management of material environmental issues from the managers of the
environmental affairs committee or environment management system.
15
3. Stakeholder engagement
✓ Stakeholder engagement is sometimes employed to build a good relationship with stakeholders who
have an impact on response to material environmental issues, and to smoothly conduct the process
of identifying material environmental issues and determining/executing policies for addressing such
issues. Reporting the status of stakeholder engagement is an effective method of showing how the
entity is mindful of stakeholders’ ideas.
Items to be reported
□ Corporate policies to stakeholders
□ Overview of stakeholder engagement activities conducted in the reporting period
Explanation
✓ Stakeholder engagement refers to the systematic attempts of the entity to understand their
stakeholders and incorporate the stakeholders and their matters of interest into the entity’s activities
and decision-making process. Engagement can take an extremely wide variety of forms, including
performance by the entity alone or performance in cooperation with stakeholders.
✓ For the corporate policies to stakeholders, the entity explains the approach to stakeholder
engagement including the policy for identifying and selecting stakeholders, and for undertaking
stakeholder engagement, to disclose how stakeholder engagement is utilized for addressing material
environmental issues..
✓ The overview of stakeholder engagement activities conducted in the reporting period includes the
stakeholder groups identified and selected, the types or forms of engagement used, and the status of
the implementation of those engagement activities.
✓ If there has been feedback from stakeholders regarding the status of response to material
environmental issues, that feedback should be explained, as well.
16
4. Risk management
✓ Even if an entity has achieved good results in managing its material environmental issues, past
results may not necessarily demonstrate a high capacity to handle potential risks in the future if the
business environment undergoes significant change. In order to convey that an entity has the risk
management capacity to address latent environmental issues, it is necessary to demonstrate that the
entity’s risk management system is functioning effectively.
Items to be reported
□ Environment-related risk identification, assessment, and management processes
□ Positioning of the above processes within the entity’s overall risk management
Explanation
✓ “Risk” in this context refers to risk pertaining to material environmental issues, primarily caused by
the dramatic changes in the business environment associated with the transition to a sustainable
society.
✓ This risk management may also cover risks posed by major natural disasters, accidents, and other
unusual circumstances.
✓ Risk identification, assessment, and management processes refer to the ways in which the entity
identifies, evaluates, and is addressing risks pertaining to material environmental issues.
✓ “Positioning of the above processes within the entity’s overall risk management” constitutes an
explanation of how the entity’s processes for identifying, evaluating, and managing
environment-related risks are integrated into entity-wide risk management.
17
5. Business model
✓ The type and magnitude of the impact of an entity’s activities on the environment varies by industry,
business conditions, and the country or region in which the business is active, among other factors.
Therefore, explaining the business model of the entity serves to clarify the environmental issues
unique to the entity as well as incidental risks and opportunities, making it easier for the users of the
information to understand the status of measures taken to address material environmental issues.
Items to be reported
□ The entity’s business model
Explanation
✓ The “business model” refers to the nature of an entity’s activities and how it remains competitive,
generating and maintaining profits over the long term. Typically, this is explained using the entity’s
main products and services, its business environment, trends in its market, the position and role of
the entity in the value chain, its customers, its sales methods, and other factors.
✓ Business models differ significantly from entity to entity, meaning that each entity should utilize its
own unique technique to describe its business model in an accurate and easy-to-understand way.
✓ The International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC), which has established a disclosure
framework for integrated reporting, defines the business model as “the organization's chosen system
of inputs, business activities, outputs, and outcomes that aims to create value over the short, medium
and long term.”1 The business model is included among the items reported in the integrated report.
✓ The European Union (EU) requires publicly listed companies to disclose a brief description of their
business model in financial reporting, rendering the business model as an overview of “what a
company does, and how and why it does it.”2

1
International Integrated Reporting Council (2013), Business Model, Background Paper for <IR>, p.6.
2 European Commission (2017), Guidelines on non-financial reporting (2017/C215/01), p.10.
18
6. Value chain management
✓ If the scope (boundaries) under consideration in the identification of material environmental issues
(such as climate change, water resources, or biodiversity) extends across the entire value chain, it is
necessary to have a mechanism of value chain management that effectively prevents or addresses
such issues. If the entity has such a mechanism of value chain management, the entity explains its
workings and status.
Items to be reported
□ Value chain overview
□ Green procurement policy, objectives, and results
□ Status of eco-friendly products and services
Explanation
✓ The value chain overview explains the structure of the value chains of the entity’s primary products
and services in an easy-to-understand manner, using diagrams and similar techniques. It should
include a value chain map and lists material environmental issues for each stage of the value chain,
incidental risks and opportunities, descriptions of the entity’s work to address material
environmental issues, and other information.
✓ Regarding the “upstream” portion of the value chain, the entity describes its green procurement
policies (incl. CSR procurement) and the range of suppliers for which adherence to these policies is
required (i.e. to what extent direct / indirect business partners are covered). If targets have been set,
the entity also explains the targets set and the results thus far, and evaluates the effectiveness of the
measures employed. If no targets have been set, the entity simply states the results thus far.
✓ Regarding the “downstream” portion of the value chain, the entity describes the status of each
eco-friendly product or service. If the entity calculates its contribution to the reduction of certain
byproducts (i.e. the amount by which environmental impact has been reduced through the use of
eco-friendly products and services), the entity must state the results of those calculations and
specifically list background information such as definitions of indicators used, calculation
methodology, the scope of data aggregation, etc.
✓ If the entity is required by downstream business partners (clients) to provide information on its
adherence to green procurement policies and the status of its adherence thereto, the entity should
explain its policies for responding to such requirements and the status of its response.
19
7. Long-term vision
✓ As the social context of business gradually changes in the transition to a sustainable society, it is
necessary that entities attempting to achieve continuous growth establish a business model
appropriate for a sustainable society. Because response to material environmental issues will occur
over a long timeframe marked by dynamic environmental change, entities use the long-term vision
to present a vision of what they aim to become in the future. This vision is then used as a starting
point to assess the relevance of the entity’s activities and to help stakeholders understand the
direction of the business.
Items to be reported
□ Long-term vision
□ Time period covered by the long-term vision
□ Reasons why that time period was selected
Explanation
✓ The long-term vision serves to communicate to society what the entity seeks to become in the future
through its addressing of material environmental issues and its contributions to the achievement of a
sustainable society. Although such visions often present quantitative targets to this end, it is not
uncommon to present qualitative targets either.
✓ The time period covered by the long-term vision is primarily determined by the entity, taking into
account its industry, business conditions, size, and other such factors. The vision should cover the
period from 2030 to 2050.
✓ It is hoped that the entity will set suitable interim targets within the period covered by its long-term
vision and otherwise make it easy for readers to understand its progress toward achievement of that
vision. It is most useful to set quantitative interim targets where possible.
✓ The long-term vision and interim targets require periodic revision in response to changes in society
at large.
20
8. Strategy
✓ In order to realize the entity’s long-term vision, it is essential that the entity carries out its
sustainable action plans over the long term with a strategic direction that must be shared across the
entire entity. The environmental report serves to explain how the entity seeks to do so by specifying
its business strategy designed for achieving a sustainable society.
Item to be reported
□ Business strategy of an entity developed for contributing to the achievement of a sustainable
society
Explanation
✓ The “business strategy of an entity developed for contributing to the achievement of a sustainable
society” is one that involves work on material environmental issues in addition to establishing a
business model suitable for a sustainable society in the long term and enabling sustainable entity
growth, while also contributing to the achievement of a sustainable society.
✓ Building off of the entity’s existing business model, the strategy is an easy-to-understand road map
(e.g. systematic mechanisms and big-picture plans) by which the entity will carry out its action plans
in order to work toward the achievement of its long-term vision.
21
9. Methodology fort identifying material environmental issues
✓ The entity identifies by its own judgment its material environmental issues to be addressed, from
among all of the direct and indirect impacts its business activities have on the environment.
Stakeholders will determine whether the entity has judged them appropriately or not, and to that end
the entity explains clearly in its environmental report how it identified those material environmental
issues.
Items to be reported
□ Procedure by which the entity identified its material environmental issues
□ List of identified material environmental issues
□ Reasons that the identified environmental issues were judged material
□ Boundaries of the material environmental issues
Explanation
✓ These guidelines only require the entity to explain the methodology by which it identified its
material environmental issues and which method should be applied is exclusively dependent on the
entity's judgement.
✓ However, for the convenience of users of these guidelines, some guidance documents on materiality
and typical methods of assessing materiality are provided as supplements to these guidelines.
✓ Because material environmental issues cover even the indirect impacts of an entity’s business
activities, the boundaries of material environmental issues may expand through the entire value
chain. In order to state that the boundaries are appropriately determined, the entity explains the
boundaries from the following two perspectives:
1) At what part of the value chain do the material environmental issues occur?
2) How are the material environmental issues related to the entity’s activities and business
relationships?
22
10. The entity’s material environmental issues
✓ The entity should report on the following items for each of the material environmental issues
identified by its own judgement.
Items to be reported
□ Policies and/or action plans
□ Targets and results of policies / action plans based on performance indicators
□ Methodologies used for calculating each performance indicator
□ Aggregation scope of data for each performance indicator
□ Financial impact of related risks and opportunities and calculation methodology thereof, if the
financial impact is significant
□ An assurance report, if an independent third party provided assurance to the items to be reported
Explanation
Policies and/or action plans
✓ The policies and/or action plans describe the entity’s specific means and practical plans for
achieving sustainable entity growth and executing its business strategy that works toward realizing a
sustainable society.
✓ The entity may describe policies and/or action plans applicable to the entity’s entire organization all
together. However, when the specific policies and/or action plans for each individual material
environmental issue exist, they should be also individually described.
Performance indicators
✓ Performance indicators serve as tools for evaluating the progress of policies and/or action plans.
These indicators are typically quantitative, verifiable numerical data, but qualitative indicators may
also be used depending on the nature of the material environmental issue.
✓ In selecting performance indicators, multiple indicators may be used for one environmental issue, or
one indicator may be used for multiple environmental issues to evaluate the degree of achieving
policies and/or action plans.
✓ In order to make the degree of the progress on policies and/or action plans easier to understand,
targets are set to be accomplished by their ends of the period. These targets should be announced in
advance.
23
✓ At the end of the set period, the results of policies and/or action plans are measured with the
performance indicators. These results are to be compared to the corresponding targets to explain the
degree of the progress on policies and/or action plans.
✓ Even if no targets of policies and/or action plans are set, their results must be reported.
✓ If performance indicators are not disclosed for the entity’s material environmental issues, the entity
should explain the reasons for doing so.
✓ Performance indicators should be easily understandable for the users of environmental reporting. It
should be done by presenting their calculation methodologies (incl. coefficients used or related
metrics) and the aggregation scope of data for each performance indicator as well.
✓ In the case of indicators for which a large amount of discretion is left to the entity when calculating
them, such as avoided emission contributing to reduce the environmental impacts, the entity should
explain those indicators’ definitions, calculation methodologies, aggregation scopes of data, and
other background information as needed, to ensure that users correctly understand the meanings of
the indicators used.
✓ If the boundary of the reporting entity differs from the aggregation scope of data for specific
performance indicators, the entity should explain that difference and the reason for it, for each
performance indicator.
Financial impact of risks and opportunities
✓ If the amount of the financial impact is stated, it should be accompanied by definitions thereof,
calculation methodologies, and the scope of data aggregation.
Assurance report
✓ If multiple material environmental issues are assured by an independent third party, that should be
indicated or explained with respect to each applicable material environmental issue.
24
Reference
Major environmental issues and their performance indicators
✓ As a reference material for use in identifying material environmental issues as explained in Chapter
2, this sector presents and describes examples of major environmental issues and their performance
indicators.
✓ The major environmental issues listed here as examples are issues that are considered highly
material by many entities. This section cannot necessarily cover all possible environmental issues.
The entity is free to identify material environmental issues other than those listed here as example.
✓ For each identified material environmental issue, the entity presents the “items to be reported” listed
under Chapter 2, “10. The entity’s material environmental issues.” This section includes examples of
performance indicators for six major environmental issues. If the entity has identified material
environmental issues other than those six, the entity must determines their appropriate performance
indicators.
✓ A performance indicator is that selected by the entity to evaluate the results of its action plans. These
indicators are often quantitative in nature, but qualitative indicators may be used depending on the
nature of the relevant environmental issue.
✓ Many material environmental issues are relevant throughout the entire value chain. Therefore, the
entire value chain must be reviewed when determining the aggregation scope of data for
performance indicators.
25
1. Climate change
✓ Climate change poses the threat of catastrophic damage to economic and social systems on a global
scale. As a result, one of the major tasks facing the world is a rapid global transition to a post-carbon
society. Because business activities rely on fossil fuels in some way or another, entities are required
to disclose the extent of that dependency and to describe their initiatives working towards
decarbonization.
Items to be reported
Greenhouse gas emissions
□ Scope 1 emissions
□ Scope 2 emissions
□ Scope 3 emissions
Emission intensity
□ Greenhouse gas emission intensity
Energy usage
□ Breakdown of energy usage and overall energy usage
□ Renewable energy usage as a percentage of overall energy usage
Explanation
Greenhouse gas emissions
✓ Greenhouse gas emissions are divided into three “scopes”. For scope 3 emissions, each entity uses a
significantly different method for calculation, and thus these emissions should be accompanied by a
description of the way in which they were calculated.
✓ The greenhouse gases covered by the report are as follows: CO2, methane, nitrous oxide, nitrogen
trifluoride, and three fluorinated gas alternatives (hydrofluorocarbon [HFC], perfluorocarbon [PFC],
sulfur hexafluoride [SF6]).
✓ Greenhouse gas emissions are calculated by taking the sum of all of the different types of
greenhouse gases produced by business activities and converting this sum to a total quantity of CO2
based on their Global Warming Potential. This CO2 total is expressed in units of tCO2e (tons of
CO2 equivalent). However, if there are insignificant amounts of greenhouse gas emissions other
than CO2, it is acceptable to report only CO2 emissions.
26
Emission intensity
✓ Emission intensity is an indicator that makes it easier to compare greenhouse gas emission
reductions chronologically and between entities.
✓ Emission intensity is calculated using an appropriate measure of business activity such as sales,
production output, etc.
Energy usage
✓ The entity should list energy usage by energy type (kWh, kg, etc.) including electricity and each fuel
used; and total energy usage, the sum of the calorific value of the different types.
Scenario analysis
✓ For some environmental issues with an especially high level of materiality to entities and society
(e.g. climate change), entities of certain industries, business types and sizes may need to assess the
validity of their long-term strategies through scenario analysis.
✓ In scenario analysis, several possible scenarios are forecast concerning possible changes in business
conditions and long-term policy trends, and the impact of each scenario on the entity’s strategy is
analyzed in terms its risks and opportunities. Assessment of the resilience and durability of the
entity’s strategy is evaluated for each scenario, testing the validity of the strategy.
✓ The scenario analysis is not included among the examples of items to be reported. However, the
TCFD has recommended that scenario analysis be performed, necessitating caution regarding future
information disclosures.
27
2. Water resources
✓ Water (especially fresh water) is an essential resource for human survival and difficult to substitute.
In a world where access to water resources is at high risk of being restricted by factors such as
increasing water usage due to increasing populations and precipitation patterns changing due to
climate change, water resource management in business activities has become a material
environmental issue.
Items to be reported
□ Water resource inputs
□ Water intensity
□ Water discharge
□ Status of water stress, if the entity has sites or supply chains located in areas with water stress
Explanation
✓ Water resource inputs are broken down by type: tap water, industrial water, groundwater, river water,
seawater, etc.
✓ Water intensity is calculated using an appropriate measure of business activity such as sales,
production output, etc.
✓ Due to uneven distribution of water resources across the world, not just workplaces but entire supply
chains may be located in areas with water stress. If this is the case for an entity, it will explain the
relevant situation here.
✓ In explaining the status of water stress, the description should also cover the impact of the entity’s
activities on all regional water systems and the status of management of those water resources.
28
3. Biodiversity
✓ In pursuing a transition to a sustainable society, it is essential that the ecosystems underlying
biodiversity be conserved to achieve a society in harmony with nature that benefits from that
biodiversity now and in the future. Because entities have a deep relationship with biodiversity
domestically and internationally through their business activities, the conservation of biodiversity in
such activities is a material environmental issue.
Items to be reported
□ Impact of business activities on biodiversity
□ Status and extent of the dependency of the entity’s business activities on biodiversity
□ Business activities that contribute to biodiversity conservation
□ Status of cooperation with external stakeholders
Explanation
✓ The impact of business activities on biodiversity refers not only to the direct effects of the entity’s
business activities, but also indirect effects such as the impact on biodiversity of other businesses in
the entity’s supply chain, and the impact of consumers using or disposing of products or services
provided by the entity.
✓ In this business’s case, targets pertaining to the avoidance or minimization of the impact of business
activities on biodiversity are included as “initiative targets” to be reported as per Chapter 2, “10. The
entity’s material environmental issues.” These targets are chosen such that they can be used by the
entity to confirm the status of relevant initiatives as well as be reported to an external audience, but
these targets do not need to be quantitative in nature. Additionally, because the indirect effects of
business activities are included in consideration of the impact of business activities on biodiversity,
targets are chosen with consideration of cooperation with consumers and other entities involved in
the entity’s value chain.
✓ Regarding “the status and extent of the dependency of the entity’s business activities on
biodiversity”, the entity should explain natural capital and ecosystem services that the business
activities depend on (e.g., the entity procures biological raw materials for its business), with further
discussion of the extent of that dependency from the perspective of the sustainability of those
business activities.
✓ “Business activities that contribute to biodiversity conservation” refers to how technology owned by
29
the entity and the products and services the entity produces contribute to the conservation of
biodiversity and the sustainable use of natural resources.
✓ “Cooperating external stakeholders” includes client entities, local governments (municipalities),
NGOs/NPOs, local residents, etc.
30
4. Resource circulation
✓ From the perspective of intergenerational fairness, a sustainable society requires resource
consumption to an extent that future generations’ demand for resources can still be satisfied. To that
end, in order to establish a sustainable business model, it is essential that entities promote resource
circulation.
✓ Water resources and fossil fuels used as energy sources are not included in the total amount of
“resource inputs.” For more information on these topics, see “1. Climate change” for resources used
as energy sources and “2. Water resources” for water resources.
Items to be reported
Resource inputs
□Volume of nonrenewable resource inputs
□Volume of renewable resource inputs
□ Volume of recycled materials used
□ Rate of recycled and reused resources ( = Volume of recycled materials used / Volume of resource
inputs)
Resource waste
□ Total production of waste, etc.
□ Total final disposal volume of waste, etc.
Explanation
✓ “Nonrenewable resources” refers to exhaustible natural resources such as metals and minerals that
require an extremely long time to replenish naturally. “Renewable resources” refers to agricultural
produce, timber, marine products, and other resources that can be renewed over a short period
thorough natural cycles, protective measures, etc.
✓ Resources to be reported should be determined due to their high volume of use, scarcity, or other
such characteristic and listed by type.
✓ Whether to reuse or recycle a resource or not is determined in some cases by comparing the cost of
recycling to the price of virgin material. For this reason, it is preferable to understand the differences
between whether a resource is virgin or recycled.
✓ The volume of recycled materials used refers to the amount of reused or recycled resources used to
31
substitute for virgin materials.
✓ In order to restrict the consumption of resources by business activities to a level such that future
generations’ demand for resources can still be satisfied, the use of nonrenewable resources will be
dramatically restricted. To that end, it is necessary to transition over to renewable resources and
reduce the usage of nonrenewable resources, in addition to reducing the total final disposal volume
of waste through resource circulation.
✓ Report items pertaining to “resource waste” should be reported by type and disposal method to
describe the impact on the environment of waste treatment.
32
5. Chemical substances
✓ Entities are required to take their own measures to improve chemical substance management and
prevent problems with environmental conservation in advance. The proper management of chemical
substances and the reduction of handled chemical substances through the use of substitutes are both
important tasks facing society.
Items to be reported
□ Volume of chemical substances in storage
□ Volume of chemical substance emissions
□ Volume of chemical substances transferred
□ Volume of chemical substances handled (volume used)
Explanation
✓ As long as chemical substances are properly stored, they do not carry a high risk during normal
times. However, in the event of an accident or natural disaster (i.e. abnormal times), there may be a
massive impact on the environment depending on the amount of chemical substances in storage,
making this a major potential environmental issue.
✓ The volume of each type of major chemical substance is included.
✓ If there has been a drastic change in chemical substance storage volume, emissions volume, or any
other such measures compared to the previous year, explain the reason for that difference in detail.
✓ Chemical substances must be managed properly even when present in small quantities. An
explanation of the status of chemical substance management is also included in “Response policies /
action plan,” one of the items to be reported under “The entity’s material environmental issues.”
✓ The range of chemical substances to be managed must consider not only organizations that are the
focus of the report but the entity’s entire value chain.
33
6. Pollution prevention
✓ Environmental pollution can have a major impact on the environment and future generations. The
entity that causes the pollution may not only be liable for large damages payments and restoration
costs but also face severe risks to their reputation. In particular, pollution in developing countries
that cause health problems are material environmental issues must be rapidly addressed by entities.
Items to be reported
General
□ Status of legal compliance
Air quality conservation
□ Air-pollutant emissions volume, emission concentration in air pollution regulations
Water pollution
□ Water pollution load, emission concentration in emissions regulations
Soil pollution
□ Status of soil pollution
Explanation
✓ Even if a legal violation or the discovery thereof occurs before the time period covered by the report,
the legal violation should be explained if it has an impact on the period covered by the report. For
example, a past legal violation that had a large impact may continue to affect compliance issues
through to the present.
✓ Entities can also write about activities that go beyond compliance (e.g. if an entity voluntarily
conducts soil pollution studies and discloses the results thereof, despite this not being required by
law).
✓ Important legal violations that occurred in the entity’s supply chain should also be reported.
34
Glossary
(Note) The lack of a clearly stated source for a definition indicates that it is defined or explained by the
Ministry of the Environment.
SDGs (p. 1, 3)
The seventeen Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), adopted at an international summit at
the United Nations Headquarters in New York on September 25, 2015, constitute the core of
“Transforming our World: the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development.” The biggest characteristic of
these SDGs is their universality, being adopted by all countries, including developed countries. Of these
17 goals, at least 12 are related to the environment. The Ministry of the Environment is also actively
implementing policies toward the achievement of the Agenda in areas including climate change and
sustainable consumption and production (initiatives toward the achievement of a recycling-based society,
etc.).
Paris Agreement (p. 1, 3)
The Paris Agreement is a new international framework for climate change in 2020 and beyond.
It was adopted in 2015 at the 21st United Nations Climate Change Conference (COP 21) held in Paris,
France. The Paris Agreement includes the establishment of a 2℃ long-term warming target shared
throughout the world, the submission and updating of reduction targets every five years in all countries,
national adaptation plan processes and implementation for each country, the continued provision of
funding by developed countries as well as voluntary funding provided by developing countries, the
receiving of reports and reviews of countries’ implementation status in a common and flexible way, and
the use of market mechanisms including the Joint Crediting Mechanism (JCM). The Paris Agreement
represents a major historical turning point as the first fair agreement in history to successfully have all
countries participating voluntarily as appropriate for conditions in their country.
ESG information (p.3, 4)
Environmental, social, and governance information on an entity. Risks and governance pertaining to
environmental and social issues are points of perspective that can be used by institutional investors and
the rest of the financial sector to understand the status of an entity and improve the mid- to long-term
value of the entities in which they invest. In September 2015, the Government Pension Investment Fund
35
(GPIF), the largest pension asset pool in the world, signed the United Nations-supported Principles for
Responsible Investment. This served as one opportunity in which ESG investment—investment that takes
into account environmental, social, and governance information—has become increasingly better known
and a bigger source of interest over time.
GRI Standards (p.3)
The GRI Standards serve to present global best practices for the purpose of general reporting
on the economic, environmental, and social impact of an organization. Sustainability reports based on
these standards provide information on the positive and negative contributions of organizations to
sustainable development.
Source: GRI website
International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC) (p. 3, 17)
The International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC) is an international confederation of regulatory
authorities, investors, entities, standard-setting bodies, accountants, NGOs, and other parties. Working
under the approach that communication on value creation is the next step in the development of corporate
reporting, the IIRC drafted the International Integrated Reporting Framework in 2013. Integrated
reporting recognizes the fact that the value-creation process relies on resource contributions from a
variety of stakeholders. An integrated report is founded on the assumption of integrated thinking in which
the entity is run with proper consideration paid to those stakeholders, and contains the entity’s strategy,
governance, performance, and material data pertaining to the entity’s future outlook compiled in a way
that can reflect the context (environmental, social, etc.) of the entity.
Source: IIRC website
Material balance (p.5)
An easy-to-understand comparison of the inputs (resources, energy volume) and outputs (volume of
products / services produced and sold, amount of burden on the environment of waste, greenhouse gases,
discharge, chemical substances, etc.) of an entity’s activities.
Stakeholders (p.2, 7, 8, 12, 15, 19, 21, 28, 29, 35)
The organizations and individuals with a direct or indirect interest in the entity’s activities, including its
environmental initiatives. For an entity, this includes customers / consumers, shareholders / investors,
36
clients, employees, NPOs, local residents, administrative organizations, etc.
Value chain (p.2, 17, 18, 21, 24, 28, 32)
The entire chain of economic agents or economic activities involved in the entity’s business
processes from the creation of added-value to consumption. Includes activities such as raw material
mining, procurement, production, sales, transport, use, disposal, etc.
Scope 1, 2,3 emissions (p.25)
Greenhouse gas emissions can be subdivided by source activity as per the following activity
groups (called “scopes”).
Scope 1 emissions are direct greenhouse gas emissions from the entity itself.
Scope 2 emissions are indirect emissions associated with the use of electricity, heat, or steam
supplied by another party.
Scope 3 emissions any indirect emissions other than those covered by Scope 2.
Supply chain (p.27, 28, 33)
The chain of all activities and suppliers who supply products and services to the entity. The
supply chain is further upstream than the value chain.
