Section 3: Ensuring Appropriate Information Disclosure and
Transparency
General Principle 3
Companies should appropriately make information disclosure in compliance with
the relevant laws and regulations, but should also strive to actively provide information
beyond that required by law. This includes both financial information, such as financial
standing and operating results, and non-financial information, such as business
strategies and business issues, risk and governance.
The board should recognize that disclosed information will serve as the basis for
constructive dialogue with shareholders, and therefore ensure that such information,
particularly non-financial information, is accurate, clear and useful.
Notes
Companies are legally required to disclose a wide range of information. The timely and
appropriate disclosure of information in accordance with the relevant laws and
regulations is essential for investor protection and securing market confidence. The board,
kansayaku, the kansayaku board 6
 and external auditors all bear an important
responsibility in this regard, starting with the establishment of an appropriate internal
control system as to financial information.
Companies should actively strive to provide information other than what is required by
laws and regulations.
It has been noted that while the quantitative part of financial statements of Japanese
companies conform to a standard format and therefore excel with respect to comparability,
non-financial information, such as financial standing, business strategies, risks and ESG
(environmental, social and governance) matters, is often boiler-plate and lacking in detail,
therefore less valuable. The board should actively commit to ensure that disclosed
information, including non-financial information, is as valuable and useful as possible.
Irrespective of whether the disclosed information is required by law, the appropriate
provision of information is an effective means to develop a shared awareness and
understanding with shareholders and other stakeholders, in particular given that as
6 Kansayaku board: See Notes to the General Principle 4.
- 14 -
outsiders they suffer from information asymmetry. Appropriate information disclosure
will also contribute to constructive dialogue based on Japan’s Stewardship Code.
Principle 3.1 Full Disclosure
In addition to making information disclosure in compliance with relevant laws and
regulations, companies should disclose and proactively provide the information listed
below (along with the disclosures specified by the principles of the Code) in order to
enhance transparency and fairness in decision-making and ensure effective corporate
governance:
i) Company objectives (e.g., business principles), business strategies and business
plans;
ii) Basic views and guidelines on corporate governance based on each of the
principles of the Code;
iii) Board policies and procedures in determining the remuneration of the senior
management and directors;
iv) Board policies and procedures in the appointment/dismissal of the senior
management and the nomination of directors and kansayaku candidates; and
v) Explanations with respect to the individual appointments/dismissals and
nominations based on iv).
Supplementary Principles
3.1.1 These disclosures, including disclosures in compliance with relevant laws and
regulations, should add value for investors, and the board should ensure that
information is not boiler-plate or lacking in detail.
3.1.2 Bearing in mind the number of foreign shareholders, companies should, to the
extent reasonable, take steps for providing English language disclosures.
In particular, companies listed on the Prime Market should disclose and provide
necessary information in their disclosure documents in English.
3.1.3 Companies should appropriately disclose their initiatives on sustainability when
disclosing their management strategies. They should also provide information
on investments in human capital and intellectual properties in an understandable
- 15 -
and specific manner, while being conscious of the consistency with their own
management strategies and issues.
In particular, companies listed on the Prime Market should collect and analyze
the necessary data on the impact of climate change-related risks and earning
opportunities on their business activities and profits, and enhance the quality and
quantity of disclosure based on the TCFD recommendations, which are an
internationally well-established disclosure framework, or an equivalent
framework.

Principle 5.2 Establishing and Disclosing Business Strategies and Business Plans
When establishing and disclosing business strategies and business plans, companies
should articulate their earnings plans and capital policies, and present targets for
profitability and capital efficiency after accurately identifying the company’s cost of
capital. Also, companies should provide explanations that are clear and logical to
shareholders with respect to the allocation of management resources, such as reviewing
their business portfolio and investments in fixed assets, R&D, and human capital, and
specific measures that will be taken in order to achieve their plans and targets.
Supplementary Principle
5.2.1 In formulating and announcing business strategies, etc., companies should clearly
present the basic policy regarding the business portfolio decided by the board and
the status of the review of such portfolio.