Practical Handbook
for ESG Disclosure

1






Contents
Introduction 3
Background to the Handbook 3
Objective of the Handbook 3
Important features of the Handbook 4
Intended audience 5
The four Steps that make up the Handbook 6
Step 1: ESG Issues and ESG Investment 8
1-1 Understanding ESG issues and ESG investment 9
Step 2: Connecting ESG Issues to Strategy 18
2-1 ESG and its impact on strategy 20
2-2 Identifying what is "material" 24
Step 3: Oversight and Implementation 32
3-1 ESG in the decision-making process 33
3-2 Setting metrics and targets 36
Step 4: Information Disclosure and Engagement 42
4-1 Organising disclosure contents 43
4-2 Using existing frameworks 46
4-3 Further points for consideration 48
4-4 Two-way engagement with investors 50
Afterword 51
2
Appendix: Outlines of existing frameworks 52
 Sustainable Stock Exchanges (SSE) Initiative: Model Guidance on
Reporting ESG Information to Investors 53
 Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry (METI): Guidance for
Collaborative Value Creation 55
 Recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-related Financial
Disclosures (TCFD) 57
 Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) Standards 60
 International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC): International
Integrated Reporting Framework 62
 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards 65
 World Federation of Exchanges (WFE): ESG Guidance and Metrics 67
Insets and examples
Inset 1.1: The EU sustainable finance strategy 11
Inset 1.2: An example of a company valuation using ESG information 13
Inset 1.3: The rise of millennials 14
Inset 1.4: TCFD and Japan's Green Investment Guidance 14
Inset 1.5: A letter to the world's CEOs from BlackRock 16
Examples 2.1: How companies disclose the relationship between
ESG issues and strategy 22
Example 2.2: Materiality analysis from Japanese financial firm "F" 26
Example 2.3: Materiality analysis from Japanese
pharmaceutical firm "G" 27
Example 3.1: The sustainability management structure of Japanese
manufacturing firm "H" 35
Example 3.2: Materiality and targets of Japanese consumable
goods maker "I" 38
Inset 4.1: Disclosing quantitative data 45
Inset 4.2: Disclosing ESG information via TDnet 49
3
Background to the Handbook
In recent years, a large range of investors
have come to acknowledge that when
evaluating a company’s corporate value from a
mid- to long-term perspective, it is important to
take into account the "sustainability" of the
company’s operations, including ESG
(Environment, Social, Governance) factors.
Listed companies have also begun to act on
starting ESG-related activities and improving
ESG-related information disclosure (hereinafter
referred to as "ESG disclosure"), as part of their
accountability towards investors and other
stakeholders.
In line with this trend, a number of standards,
frameworks and guidance documents
(hereinafter collectively referred to as
"frameworks") have been provided by
governments, international organizations, stock
exchanges, NGOs and others to help companies
with ESG disclosure. Although most of these
have been from outside Japan, the Japanese
Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry has
also published a Guidance for Integrated
Corporate Disclosure and Company-Investor
Dialogues for Collaborative Value Creation - ESG
integration, non-financial Information
disclosure and Intangible Assets into
Investment ("Guidance for Collaborative Value
Creation") and a Guidance for Climate-related
Financial Disclosures ("TCFD Guidance").
However, while the range of frameworks that
listed companies can refer to when looking into
ESG disclosure has grown, listed companies
have reported difficulties in telling the
frameworks apart and confusion over how to
use each one. Given that most of the
frameworks are from outside Japan, many
companies have also felt that there is not
enough information about them in Japanese.
With this background, Japan Exchange Group,
Inc. (JPX) has created this Handbook to support
listed companies with their voluntary efforts to
improve ESG disclosure, thereby encouraging
dialogue between listed companies and
investors.
Objective of the Handbook
JPX has been working to improve the value of
its listed companies, for example through better
corporate governance, for a number of years.
Japan's Corporate Governance Code, created by
Tokyo Stock Exchange and implemented in 2015,
requires listed companies to address social,
environmental and other sustainability issues
positively and proactively, while the 2018
revision clarified that "non-financial
information" should include ESG information,
and called for companies to disclose this
information in a valuable and useful way. The
Code also requires listed companies to disclose
information on governance (the "G" of ESG) in a
Introduction
4
Corporate Governance Report.
In December 2017, JPX joined the Sustainable
Stock Exchanges (SSE) Initiative, and in June
2019, it made and published a Japanese
translation of the SSE Initiative's Model
Guidance on Reporting ESG Information to
Investors 1
 . The Guidance brings together
important issues regarding ESG disclosure as a
result of discussions with its founding
organizations and Partner Exchanges.
Having provided listed companies with the
SSE Model Guidance, however, JPX felt that
putting it into practice would require some
more practical information. With this in mind,
the Practical Handbook for ESG Disclosure aims
to provide Japanese listed companies with
helpful information to refer to when taking their
first steps towards beginning ESG disclosure2
.
Important features of the
Handbook
Below are some important features of this
Handbook.
1. The Handbook aims to help listed
companies which choose to link ESG issues
to corporate value and disclose about those
issues in a way that the links can be clearly
understood. For that reason, rather than
listing specific data points to disclose, it
focuses on issues that listed companies
come across when looking at ESG disclosure
internally. These issues, along with related
1Sustainable Stock Exchange Initiative (2015) “Model Guidance on Reporting ESG Information to Investors”
<https://sseinitiative.org/wp-content/uploads/2017/06/SSE-Model-Guidance-on-Reporting-ESG.pdf>
2Similar ESG guidelines for listed companies have been published by other exchanges around the world, including
London Stock Exchange, Deutsche Börse, Hong Kong Exchanges and Clearing, Singapore Exchange and NASDAQ.
processes and other points to consider, are
split into four Steps that companies can
follow.
2. To encourage disclosure of information
useful to investors for making investment
decisions, the Handbook incorporates
investors’ points of view ("investors" in this
Handbook means mainly asset owners
(pension funds, etc.) and asset managers
(financial advisors)).
3. Each Step in the Handbook has been
chosen with reference to points common to
existing frameworks. The relevant parts of
each framework are then specified, making
it easier for readers to refer back. The main
frameworks that are referred to in the
Handbook are as below (outlines of each
can be found in the appendix):
- Sustainable Stock Exchanges (SSE) Initiative:
Model Guidance on Reporting ESG Information
to Investors ("SSE Model Guidance")
- Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry
(METI): Guidance for Integrated Corporate
Disclosure and Company-Investor Dialogues for
Collaborative Value Creation - ESG integration,
non-financial information disclosure and
intangible assets into investment ("Guidance for
Collaborative Value Creation")
- Recommendations of the Task Force on
Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD)
("TCFD Recommendations")
- Sustainability Accounting Standards Board
(SASB) Standards
5
- International Integrated Reporting Council
(IIRC): International Integrated Reporting
Framework ("IIRC Framework")
- Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards
- World Federation of Exchanges (WFE): ESG
Guidance and Metrics
4. To enable deeper understanding, each Step
is illustrated with actual cases of disclosure,
so that readers can form a realistic image of
the processes involved.
5. The Handbook is designed so that rather
than reading front to back, each company
can choose which parts to refer to
depending on their current circumstances.
Intended audience
The Handbook is mainly aimed at listed
companies which are thinking of beginning ESG
disclosure, but those who have already begun
disclosure should also find some useful
information.
The Handbook's intention is to provide
information which can help companies to aim
for improved corporate value through
understanding ESG and ESG investment,
working on ESG issues in a way that fits the
company, and enacting dialogue with investors
and other stakeholders. However, relevant ESG
issues and their importance will differ from
company to company, so we do not expect the
processes and examples shown in this
Handbook to fit perfectly to every company. We
hope that by using the Handbook, listed
companies can deepen their understanding of
each Step and work on ESG disclosure with
contents and methods that fit to their individual
circumstances.
6
The four Steps that make up the Handbook
In order to effectively disclose the ESG-related information which investors need to evaluate midto long-term corporate value, it is important that rather than simply focusing on what specific points
to disclose and how, companies can come to these decisions through a process of linking corporate
value to ESG issues. The Handbook brings together the issues involved in this and splits them into the
below four Steps. These Steps were chosen with reference to actual cases of disclosure, the Guidance
for Collaborative Value Creation, the TCFD Recommendations, the IIRC Framework and others.
None of the Steps or processes are prescriptive or absolute, and listed companies can begin ESG
disclosure without completing all of them perfectly. If companies begin ESG disclosure with whatever
information their current circumstances allow, this will lead to dialogue with investors, which will
then enable further actions. We hope that the Handbook can be used as a guide through all of these
stages.
7
The Handbook is made up of the below four Steps.
Step 1: ESG Issues and ESG Investment
Understand ESG issues and the current situation around ESG investment.
Step 2: Connecting ESG Issues to Strategy
Decide on what ESG issues are "material" to your company’s strategy.
Step 3: Oversight and Implementation
Put in place an internal structure for oversight and implementation of ESG issues and set
metrics/targets, to enable steady progress on ESG activities.
Step 4: Information Disclosure and Engagement
Having linked ESG issues to corporate value, disclose ESG information so it can be used for
investment decisions. Aim for mid- to long-term corporate value creation by actively seeking
dialogue with investors and other stakeholders.
8
For companies to aim for corporate value improvement through disclosing investment decisionuseful ESG information and enacting dialogue with investors, it is important to first understand what
ESG issues are and what the current situation is around ESG investment. This Step introduces trends
around ESG investment.
Sections
1-1 Understanding ESG issues and ESG investment
 ESG and corporate value
 E, S, and G
 The rise of ESG investment
 ESG investment and fiduciary duty
 Investor diversity
 What investors are asking for
 ESG in the Corporate Governance Code
 ESG issues and your business
Step 1: ESG Issues and ESG Investment
9
1-1 Understanding ESG issues and ESG investment
ESG and corporate value
When investors look to evaluate the corporate
value of their investee companies, as well as
using financial information such as balance
sheets and profit and loss statements, they also
refer to non-financial information. In recent
years, awareness of ESG issues as a part of that
non-financial information has grown, from the
perspective of their impact on company
sustainability and mid- to long-term corporate
value. In this way, ESG issues have become much
more important for investors' investment
decisions and in company disclosure.
E, S, and G
ESG stands for Environmental, Social, and
Governance, and is generally used to mean a
wide range of issues connecting to those three
themes. Although there is no universally agreed
definition of ESG, a good example is the below
list from the Principles for Responsible
Investment (PRI)3
:
 Environmental (E): climate change,
resource depletion, waste, pollution,
deforestation, etc.
 Social (S): human rights, modern slavery,
child labour, working conditions, employee
relations, etc.
 Governance (G): bribery and corruption,
3 PRI website “What is responsible investment?”
<https://www.unpri.org/pri/an-introduction-to-responsible-investment/what-is-responsible-investment>
4 PRI website "PRI Signatories" <https://www.unpri.org/signatories>
5 Global Sustainable Investment Alliance (2019) "2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABLE INVESTMENT REVIEW"
<http://www.gsi-alliance.org/wp-content/uploads/2019/03/GSIR_Review2018.3.28.pdf>
executive pay, board diversity and structure,
political lobbying and donations. tax
strategy, etc.
The rise of ESG investment
"ESG investment" is when an investor makes
an investment decision taking into account
company information relating to ESG issues as
well as the traditional financial information. The
term became known among investors from 2006,
when then-UN Director General Kofi Annan led
the formation of the PRI, which calls for investors
to take into account ESG information in their
investment decisions.
The number of institutional investors who
have signed the PRI has been growing ever since,
surpassing 2,860 worldwide as of January 20204
.
At the same time, the amount of assets under
management being allocated for ESG investment
is also growing, from 22.8 trillion USD in 2016 to
30.6 trillion in 2018, according to a report from
the Global Sustainable Investment Alliance
(GSIA)5
.
ESG investment is also growing in Japan. The
awareness and activity of domestic institutional
investors has been shifting ever since the
Government Pension Investment Fund (GPIF)
signed the PRI in 2015, and the number of
Japanese PRI signatories exceeded 80 in January
2020. According to the same GSIA report, the
10
amount of Japanese assets allocated to ESG
investment more than tripled between 2016 and
2018, from 0.5 trillion USD to 2.1 trillion (18.3%
of all assets under management).
More recently, a number of other publications
and events have provided a further tailwind for
ESG, including the UN's Sustainable
Development Goals (SDGs), the Paris climate
conference (COP21), and the Financial Stability
Board’s (FSB) Task-force on Climate-related
Financial Disclosures (TCFD).
ESG investment and fiduciary duty
One piece of context about the growth of ESG
investment concerns how it was made possible
within the framework of fiduciary duty, an
obligation which most institutional investors
have to their customers.
The trigger for this was again the PRI,
launched in 2006. The PRI puts into writing the
connection between ESG and fiduciary duty, with
signatories agreeing that "As institutional
investors, we have a duty to act in the best longterm interests of our beneficiaries. In this
fiduciary role, we believe that environmental,
social, and corporate governance (ESG) issues
can affect the performance of investment
portfolios... Therefore, where consistent with
our fiduciary responsibilities, we commit to the
[6 principles]."
The issue has been debated in Europe and the
US since then in the context of fiduciary duty
regulations for pension fund operators, and
although countries differ on some points,
regulation has at least made it possible for ESG
to be considered by investors, not to give social
responsibility preference over investment
returns, but as a part of ensuring those returns.
In the case of Japan, in 2014 the Stewardship
Code was launched as "principles for a wide
range of institutional investors to appropriately
discharge their stewardship responsibilities, with
the aim of promoting sustainable growth of
investee companies, through constructive
dialogue with them". The Code states that
"Institutional investors should monitor investee
companies so that they can appropriately fulfill
their stewardship responsibilities with an
orientation towards the sustainable growth of
the companies", and that factors for monitoring
"may include, for example, the investee
companies’ governance, strategy, performance,
capital structure, business risks and
opportunities (including risks and opportunities
arising from social and environmental matters),
and how the companies address them."
The Stewardship Code’s 2020 revision goes
further, specifying that a part of stewardship
responsibility is purposeful dialogue with
companies based on in-depth knowledge of not
just companies and their business environment,
but "consideration of sustainability (medium- to
long-term sustainability including ESG factors)
consistent with their investment management
strategies."
In this way, a growing number of Japanese
institutional investors now see it as an important
part of fulfilling their fiduciary duty and
accountability as investors to consider ESG
factors when making investment decisions and
report this process and its results to asset
owners or beneficiaries.

Inset 1.1: The EU sustainable finance strategy
The EU is laying foundations to promote sustainable finance at a regulatory level.
On the topic of reporting of non-financial information, in October 2014 the EU announced the
"non-financial reporting Directive (2014/95/EU)" which sets out rules on disclosure of non-financial
and diversity information by large EU-based companies, and was applied from fiscal years beginning
in 2017. To support this Directive, the EU also released "Guidelines on non-financial reporting" in
June 2017. Through these, the EU is supporting more consistent and comparable disclosure of nonfinancial information6
. Guidelines on reporting climate-related information were also added in June
2019.
 In addition, to encourage private capital flows into sustainable projects such as those
combating climate change, in March 2018 the European Commission (EC) launched an "Action plan
on financing sustainable growth"7
. A technical expert group was set up to debate the issues, and in
June 2019 this group published reports on 1) an EU taxonomy (definitions of and a classification
system for sustainable economic activity in the EU), 2) an EU Green Bond Standard, and 3) sustainable
benchmarks (stock indices)8
. The EU taxonomy, currently focusing on climate change mitigation and
adaptation, is intended to form the basis of EU sustainable finance and will eventually be wired into
regulations on capital requirements for banks and investment activities, as well as standards for
financial products and other rules. These new rules are aimed not just at promoting sustainable
finance, but also attaining the goals of the SDGs and the Paris Agreement (keeping a global
temperature rise this century well below 2 degrees Celsius above pre-industrial levels)9
.
6 European Commission website “Commission guidelines on non-financial reporting”
<https://ec.europa.eu/info/publications/non-financial-reporting-guidelines_en>
7 European Commission website “Commission action plan on financing sustainable growth”
https://ec.europa.eu/info/publications/180308-action-plan-sustainable-growth_en
8 European Commission website “Technical expert group on sustainable finance (TEG)”
<https://ec.europa.eu/info/publications/sustainable-finance-technical-expert-group_en>
9 European Commission website “Sustainable finance: Commission publishes guidelines to improve how firms
report climate-related information and welcomes three new important reports on climate finance by leading
experts” <https://europa.eu/rapid/press-release_IP-19-3034_en.htm>
Investor diversity
Although "ESG investment" is used as a catchall phrase, in fact it encompasses a range of
investment strategies, objectives, timelines and
other factors, all of which require different ESG
information and use it in different ways. GSIA
have created the below guide which splits ESG
investment strategies into 7 types10
 . According
to GSIA's statistics, the most practiced strategy in
Japan is "Corporate engagement and
shareholder action", followed by "ESG
integration". In fact, in Japan's case, engagement
and shareholder action (e.g. exercising voting
rights) is being seen not just in active investment,
where investee companies are chosen by
evaluating each of them according to a specific
investment strategy, but also in passive
investment, where investors use a stock index
such as TOPIX as a benchmark. A trend has been
seen recently for indices which include ESG
factors in their calculation methods. With ESG
investment and its related investment strategies
spreading, the range of uses for ESG information
is increasing in turn.
As for why investors are turning to ESG
investment, a survey by the Ministry of Economy,
Trade and Industry 11
 showed that 97.9% of
investors surveyed (all those who were
practicing ESG investment) aimed to "Reduce
risks", while 87.5% wanted to "Increase returns",
83.3% said it was to "Contribute to society", and
20.8% replied "Other".
With this knowledge about the diversity of
investors, it is important to look into ESG
disclosure while thinking about who you are
disclosing for and what kind of information they
need.

10 See footnote 5
11 Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry (2019) “Questionnaire Survey for Fund Management Organizations on
ESG Investment” (Japanese only) <https://www.meti.go.jp/press/2019/12/20191224001/20191224001-1.pdf>
Types of ESG investing
Source: GSIA (2019) "2018 Global Sustainable Investment Review" (edited)
13

Inset 1.2: An example of a company valuation using ESG information12
Asset manager A has created a framework for integrating ESG information into valuations of
corporate value (ESG integration) by selecting different ESG factors for each sector (e.g. CO2 footprint
for energy companies, labour standards or product safety for retail companies), and has embedded
that framework into its fundamental analysis. While A finds it hard to quantify the social and
environmental risks of holding a stock, it tries to evaluate a company's position and outlook by
performing a sensitivity analysis to obtain a range of possible fair values.
This is an example of an ESG analysis that A performed on sports equipment manufacturer X.
 After years of dialogue with X, A found gradual improvements in the company's risk management
and labour standards. A was able to then embed these positive changes into its valuation model
through future cash flows and the discount rate, as below.
1. A positive impact on future cash flow
As A believes that there is a positive correlation between revenue and social factors such as
employee satisfaction, it expects a company with a highly motivated labour force to have a better
sales performance. To take into account the positive implication on sales and cash flows, A
increased the market estimates of sales growth by 1% per year.
2. A positive impact on the long-term discount rate through lower reputational risk
A considers that a company with good risk management can limit its reputational risk compared
to its peers. To reflect this positive impact in its company evaluation, A decreased the discount
rate by 0.5%.
12 Based on a case study in PRI (2016) ”A PRACTICAL GUIDE TO ESG INTEGRATION FOR EQUITY INVESTING”
<https://www.unpri.org/listed-equity/a-practical-guide-to-esg-integration-for-equity-investing/10.article>
Asset manager A’s evaluation of sports equipment maker X
(factors that affect corporate value)
14


Inset 1.3: The rise of millennials
 One thing cited as a boost to the growth of ESG investment is the rise of the millennial generation
(those born between the early 1980s and the mid-1990s). Millennials pay more attention to
environmental and social issues than previous generations, and they are already well known as
consumers for choosing products and companies which contribute to solving social issues. By
extension, there is also evidence showing a high level of interest in ESG investment among
millennials13, as awareness grows that they can make a difference to issues such as climate change
and the elimination of poverty through investment choices. Some financial institutions are now
looking to develop and provide financial products to cater for this trend.
 Inset 1.4: TCFD and Japan's Green Investment Guidance
 The E (environmental) of ESG, above all climate change, is gaining attention across the world as a
vital issue that needs to be acted on. The financial sector is no different. In 2015, seeing a high
probability that climate change will destabilise financial markets, the Financial Stability Board (FSB)
set up the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) to begin debating the impact it
could have on the sector and the necessary response. The TCFD Recommendations, published in June
2017, have been taken up by companies and organisations globally, with the number of organisations
having announced their support at 983 as of January 202014. Of individual countries, Japan has the
most TCFD supporters, with 228 as of January 2020.
 In Japan, a "TCFD Consortium" was set up in May 2019 as a platform to discuss how to improve
the effectiveness of disclosure based on TCFD and how investors can reflect this information in their
investment decisions. The Guidance for Utilizing Climate-related Information to Promote Green
Investment (Green Investment Guidance) 15 , which the Consortium released in October 2019,
contains advice for investors on how to interpret and use disclosed information based on the TCFD
Recommendations. It can be a useful reference for companies wanting to understand the investor
point of view.
13 Morgan Stanley Institute for Sustainable Investing (2017), "Sustainable Signals New Data from the Individual
Investor" <https://www.morganstanley.com/pub/content/dam/msdotcom/ideas/sustainable-signals/pdf/
Sustainable_Signals_Whitepaper.pdf>
14 TCFD website "Supporters" <https://www.fsb-tcfd.org/tcfd-supporters/>
15 TCFD Consortium (2019) The Guidance for Utilizing Climate-related Information to Promote Green Investment
("Green Investment Guidance") <https://www.tcfd-consortium.jp/en/news_detail/19100802>
15
What investors are asking for
As ESG investment grows, requests to listed
companies from investors for ESG disclosure are
also increasing. In response, listed companies
are progressing with disclosure, through
integrated reports, sustainability reports,
environment reports, etc., as well as through
more fragmented media such as company
websites.
However, there is research suggesting that
most investors see the current level of ESG
disclosure as inadequate. A survey by the Life
Insurance Association of Japan (below) showed
that while 28% of companies surveyed thought
that the current level of corporate ESG
disclosure was adequate, the figure among
investors was only 1%16
.
In the same survey 17
 , the proportion of
companies who responded that they
"Understand" or "Understand to some extent"
investors' information needs was almost 70%,
although almost 30% replied that they "Don't
really understand" or "Don't understand"
investor needs at all.
Companies can understand an investor's
needs and ways of thinking through dialogue
with that investor, but in reality, investors are
diverse and it will be hard to understand
everything just through dialogue. For many
listed companies, the gap in understanding
between themselves and investors can be made
smaller by understanding the many existing
frameworks, which reflect the voices of
investors.
16 The Life Insurance Association of Japan (2019) "Initiatives by Life Insurers to Reinvigorate the Equity
Market and Achieve a Sustainable Society through Asset Management"
〈https://www.seiho.or.jp/info/news/2019/pdf/20190419_3-5.pdf〉
17 The Life Insurance Association of Japan (2019) "Initiatives by Life Insurers to Reinvigorate the Equity
Market and Achieve a Sustainable Society through Asset Management" (Japanese only)
〈https://www.seiho.or.jp/info/news/2019/pdf/20190419_3-all.pdf〉
Is the current level of corporate ESG disclosure adequate?
Source: The Life Insurance Association of Japan (2019) "Initiatives by Life Insurers to Reinvigorate the Equity
Market and Achieve a Sustainable Society through Asset Management" (edited)
16

Inset 1.5: A letter to the world's CEOs from BlackRock
Every year Larry Fink, CEO of the world's biggest institutional asset manager BlackRock, sends a
letter addressed to the world's CEOs. This letter has mentioned sustainability since 2016, and in 2020,
entitled "A Fundamental Reshaping of Finance", it warned that climate change is a financial risk that
could shake the stability of economic growth and the financial system, and called for governments,
companies and shareholders to work together to fight it.
 The 2020 letter also asked companies for disclosure based on the SASB Standards and the TCFD
Recommendations, stressing that companies need to disclose so that investors can ascertain whether
they are properly managing sustainability risks and opportunities.
 Larry Fink's letter to CEOs is available on the BlackRock website.
https://www.blackrock.com/corporate/investor-relations/larry-fink-ceo-letter
ESG in the Corporate Governance
Code
The Japanese Corporate Governance Code
sets out the main principles of effective
corporate governance. It is expected that
implementing effective corporate governance
will contribute to the sustainable growth and
corporate value creation of each company
through self-motivated actions, as well as
improving these things further through
dialogue with investors.
The Code looks in general from the point of
view of investors and other stakeholders, so
although the General Principles deal with G
(governance) as a framework for making
transparent and fair but also fast and decisive
decisions, the Code also mentions E
(environment) and S (social) issues in the
context of good governance. Principle 2.3 states
that "Companies should take appropriate
measures to address sustainability issues,
including social and environmental matters",
while supplementary principle 2.3.1 adds,
"With the recognition that dealing with
sustainability issues is an important element of
risk management, the board should take
appropriate actions to this end. Given the
increasing demand and interest with respect to
sustainability issues in recent years, the board
should consider addressing these matters
positively and proactively."
On the theme of ESG disclosure, the Notes for
General Principle 3 state that "while the
quantitative part of financial statements of
Japanese companies conform to a standard
format and therefore excel with respect to
comparability, qualitative and non-financial
information, such as financial standing,
business strategies, risks and ESG
(environmental, social and governance) matters,
17
is often boiler-plate and lacking in detail,
therefore less valuable. The board should
actively commit to ensure that disclosed
information, including non-financial
information, is as valuable and useful as
possible."
ESG issues and your business
As previously discussed, there is a growing
number of investors who acknowledge that a
company’s actions on ESG issues affect its
sustainability and corporate value. Use of ESG
information in the investment industry is also
progressing. The Ministry of Economy, Trade
and Industry’s Guidance for Collaborative Value
Creation discusses ESG as a part of a company's
sustainability and sustainable growth, which
joins together its values, business model,
strategy etc. – in this way, ESG issues are not
only relevant to one part of a company's
operations, but to the entire process of value
creation. The next Step introduces processes
that can be used when thinking about which
ESG issues are most relevant to your company's
business.
18
Sections
2-1 ESG and its impact on strategy
2-2 Identifying what is “material”
 ”Materiality” and ESG
 Why materiality is important
 Making a material issues longlist
 Evaluating the importance of ESG issues
 Material issues and strategy
As ESG issues are diverse and wide-ranging, working on every ESG issue that connects even lightly
with a company's business would be a huge undertaking. As a result, it is important that in order to
improve sustainability and aim for better corporate value, each company identifies the ESG issues
which have strong links to their strategy and moves forward focusing on those. From an investor
perspective, when evaluating a company's mid- to long-term prospects, it is useful if the ESG issues
which the company has judged as important from a mid- to long-term corporate value creation and
sustainability perspective, and the company's activities in response to those, are explained with
reference to their link to corporate value.
 There is no universally agreed system for identifying the important ESG issues to a company, but
one suggested way to start is to look into what risks and opportunities ESG issues can provide in terms
of the company's business model and strategy. This Step introduces some points to think about when
looking into the connection between ESG issues and your company's business model/strategy, along
with actual examples of how this can be done.
 Section 1 (ESG and its impact on strategy) and Section 2 (Identifying what is "material") of this Step
have many mutual links to each other in practice and there may be some elements which are hard to
clearly separate. Consequently, companies should consider implementing the main points set out
here in whatever order and with whatever processes work for them in particular depending on their
circumstances.
Step 2: Connecting ESG Issues to Strategy
19
Related sections of existing frameworks
 SSE Model Guidance (2.2.1 Supporting corporate strategy; 2.3 Relevance and Materiality; 2.3.1
Identifying themes)
 GRI Standards (101: Foundation > 1. Reporting Principles > 1.1 Stakeholder Inclusiveness; 1.2
Sustainability Context; 1.3 Materiality; 2.3 Identifying material topics and their Boundaries)
 IIRC Framework (Part II – The Integrated Report > 3. Guiding Principles; 4. Content Elements)
 TCFD Recommendations (B Climate-Related Risks, Opportunities, and Financial Impacts; C
Recommendations and Guidance > 3. Guidance for All Sectors > b. Strategy, c. Risk Management)
 WFE ESG Guidance (Guidelines for Report Preparation > Clarity of purpose/clear link to business
value; Materiality)
 METI, Guidance for Collaborative Value Creation (2. Business Model; 3. Sustainability/Growth;
4. Strategy)
 SASB Standards (by sector)
20
2-1 ESG and its impact on strategy
ESG issues can have an impact on a company's business model or strategy as either, to put it
broadly, a risk or an opportunity. (A risk, for example, could be that a new regulation stops you from
providing a certain product or service. An opportunity could be that a newly developed technology
enables you to break into a new market.) Taking this into account, the first step for considering which
ESG issues could impact your company strategy is to analyse possible impacts on the company
through the prism of risks and opportunities.
From the disclosure perspective, investors trying to judge corporate value will find it useful to
have ESG issues which the company has identified as important introduced along with an explanation
of what kind of initiatives on risk management and revenue-making opportunities the company has
included in their strategy in relation to those issues. Ideally, disclosure should include information
enabling investors to calculate financial returns, such as how cashflow will rise or fall in the future,
how much the discount rate will change after risks are dealt with, or how much your asset
composition or value, etc. will be impacted. However, even if this is difficult, qualitative information
or any way you can explain the link to corporate value is important.
As company strategies will differ depending on size, sector, geography, and other things, the
points to take into account when thinking about the impact of ESG issues on strategy will also differ
from company to company. This section introduces some points based on actual cases of disclosure.
ESG and company values
Identify ESG issues that have an impact on your
activities based around company values, such as
the company philosophy or vision.
ESG and business models
Identify the connection between ESG issues and
your business model from a corporate value
creation perspective. Work out what kind of ESG
issues will impact, and how they will impact, the
factors that make up your business model, for
example your place within the value chain, or
the factors which differentiate you from the
competition and the resources which enable
those factors.
ESG and business/asset portfolios
Analyse the impact ESG issues could have on
your individual businesses or assets and look
into how these could be handled. For example,
consider the impact a change in the regulatory
environment could have on the operations or
value of each asset you hold, and identify the
necessary response.
ESG and operations/supply chains
Identify what kind of ESG issues could impact
your operations from the standpoint of
ensuring an uninterrupted supply of resources,
etc., and analyse your entire supply chain to
identify possible impacts in the mid to long term
21
and how these could be handled.
ESG and research development
Identify what kind of research development and
human resources training you can put in place
to maintain or strengthen your competitiveness
in case of a large expected risk or opportunity
stemming from ESG issues. When doing this,
think about whether that kind of investment
will be supported by investors and other
stakeholders.
ESG and products/services
Identify whether any ESG risks or business
opportunities could apply to your current
products and/or services.
ESG and markets/customers
Consider the possibility that wider concern
about ESG issues could cause shifts in the
choices, values, and lifestyle, etc. of the markets
and/or customers that you target. If this is the
case, identify how this will affect your company
and what you can do to handle those impacts.
22

Examples 2.1: How companies disclose the relationship between ESG issues and strategy
ESG and company values
Firm A: Global consumer goods manufacturer
Firm A is a consumer goods manufacturer with operations around the globe. Its purpose is "To make
sustainable living commonplace", and under this it aims to deliver long-term growth and sustainable
value creation. With the knowledge that growth and sustainability complement each other, it has
created and disclosed a sustainability plan covering all aspects of the business and value chain and
incorporating all brands and divisions. The three aims of the plan are: 1) Improving health and wellbeing, 2) Reducing environmental impact, and 3) Enhancing livelihoods, and for each one A has
identified the business areas necessary for achievement. In addition, A has split the ways that
sustainability is contributing to the business into a) more growth, b) less risk, c) lower cost, and d)
more trust, and explains these with specific examples.
ESG and business/asset portfolios
Firm B: Global energy provider
Global energy provider B has built a business model which integrates the management of financial
and non-financial risks and opportunities. Under this model, it has created a strategy to take the best
opportunities arising from the transition to a low-carbon economy, and to achieve this, it has set a
target to entirely decarbonise the energy it supplies by 2050, and has invested widely in wind farms
and solar power plants across the world.
ESG and operations/supply chains
Firm C: Global electrical goods manufacturer
Firm C sells and supplies electrical goods globally and its supply chain is equally huge and wideranging, meaning that it takes supply chain management seriously. C carries out regular assessments
of its suppliers, including their staff education programs, attitude towards human rights, and climate
change activities, and works with them to ensure improvements where needed. If improvements are
not made, it ends its relationship with that supplier. C discloses information on its supply chain
policies and supplier assessments in a standalone annual report on supplier responsibility.
23
ESG and research development
Firm D: Global consumable goods manufacturer
Firm D is a food and drinks company with global operations. D believes that business benefits and
positive societal impact must be mutually reinforcing, and that thinking about shared value in this
way is in the long-term interests of all stakeholders. With this in mind, D has set a goal of making all
food and drinks packaging recyclable, and as part of achieving this, has founded a research
consortium along with other members of the industry with the goal of developing packaging made
with 100% sustainable and renewable resources. The consortium is planning to build a factory
capable of producing the packaging they develop.
ESG and products/services
Firm E: Global car manufacturer
Firm E is a car manufacturer with global reach. Under the belief that there is no future for cars unless
the company respondsto environmental issuessuch as climate change, in order to ensure sustainable
development together with society, E has set itself a number of challenges to complete by 2030 and
2050. One of these is to reduce global average CO2 emissions from new vehicles by more than 35%
by 2030 and 90% by 2050. To achieve this, E intends to hugely increase sales of electric and hybrid
vehicles.
24
2-2 Identifying what is "material"
In the field of ESG investment, important ESG issues which impact a company's strategy or
corporate value are referred to as "material". The process of identifying which issues are material is
often called "materiality analysis" and many companies disclose this information publicly.
In many cases, companies use existing ESG disclosure frameworks and other things to make a list
of the ESG issues that could possibly have an impact on their corporate value, and then narrow the
list down by evaluating their importance in the context of, for example, their company values,
business model, strategy, and impact on stakeholders. The IIRC Framework explains a similar process
to this in section 3D, "Materiality", which is a good reference to use when providing information to
shareholders and other stakeholders.
This section introduces some points to think about when identifying material issues. As materiality
will differ from company to company, there is no set way to do this, but the points below are based
on actual cases of disclosure and may be helpful during the process.
"Materiality" and ESG
The word "material" is a general term used
to mean essential or vital, but it has a specific
meaning in the context of financial information.
The International Accounting Standards Board
(IASB) states that "Information is material if
omitting, misstating or obscuring it could
reasonably be expected to influence the
decisions that the primary users of general
purpose financial statements make on the basis
of those financial statements, which provide
financial information about a specific reporting
entity
18
 . Similarly, the Japanese Financial
Services Agency (JFSA) writes in their Principles
Regarding the Disclosure of Narrative
Information that "The materiality of narrative
information should be judged based on
18 IFRS website “IASB clarifies its definition of 'material'” <https://www.ifrs.org/news-and-events/2018/10/iasbclarifies-its-definition-of-material/>
19 Japan Financial Services Agency (2019) “Principles Regarding the Disclosure of Narrative Information”
<https://www.fsa.go.jp/en/news/2019/20190606-3/01.pdf>
whether or not it is material to investors’
investment decisions."19
Materiality is also an important concept in
the field of ESG disclosure, and existing
frameworks have set out their own definitions
or ways of thinking about materiality based on
their own policies. In Japan, the Guidance for
Collaborative Value Creation writes that "For
investors, it is important to understand how
companies understand the materiality of ESG
factors to the sustainability of their business
models."
Overseas, the IIRC, which mostly relates to
disclosure aimed at investors, defines material
information as "matters that substantively
affect the organization’s ability to create value
over the short, medium and long term". The GRI
Standards, which think more about information
25
aimed at multiple stakeholders including
investors, defines it as "topics that reflect the
reporting organization's significant economic,
environmental, and social impacts; or
substantively influence the assessments and
decisions of stakeholders."
It is important that each company thinks
about these different definitions of materiality
and decides on one to use depending on the
specific aims, audience, or other circumstances
of their disclosure.
Why materiality is important
The range of ESG issues that can relate to
business operations is huge, but what is
relevant to each company differs depending on
things such as their industry, geography,
business model, strategy, and business
environment. While it can be said that many
issues relating to G (governance) are common
to all companies, E (environment) and S (social)
issues vary massively depending on the
company or sector.
In order to efficiently allocate limited
resources to maximising the sustainability of
your business operations in order to improve
corporate value, it is important to identify which
issues are material, i.e. have a strong
connection to your corporate value, and decide
on measures to respond to these in particular.
 From a disclosure perspective, investors
trying to evaluate a company's mid- to longterm corporate value or the sustainability of its
operations will find it very useful to have
disclosure of which ESG issues said company has
judged as material to its corporate value, along
with information on the company's activities in
response to these. For example, it is useful to
explain which measures in response to ESG
issues will be important to ensure the company
meets its mid- to long-term financial targets
(such as ROE or future cashflow).
26
 The level of contribution to society’s sustainability
The level of impact on long-term growth of the company
Support “good health and
longevity”
Work toward realization of
“leaving no one behind”
Create mobility society
without accidents
Deal with new risks
Contribute to climate change mitigation and adaptation
Strive for
resilient
community
development
Strive to improve sustainability of
natural capital
 Example 2.2: Materiality analysis from Japanese financial firm "F"
Firm F's mission is "To contribute to the development of a vibrant society and help secure a sound
future for the planet, by enabling safety and peace of mind through the global insurance and
financial services business." Under this mission, F identifies social issues to which it will have to
respond in the mid to long term, taking into account the possibility of drastic societal change. Then,
in order to contribute to solving those issues and create a "resilient and sustainable society" by
2030, using the SDGs as leading marks, the company picks out priority issues which it will work on
as challenges for Creating Shared Value (CSV, for both society and the company).
Step 1: Analysis of social issues
The company identifies social issues (below) to which it can make a significant contribution, based
on input from stakeholders (customers, shareholders, business partners, the environment, local
society, international society, employees, and agencies), as well as international frameworks and
their goals.
Step 2: Identification of priority issues
The company identifies priority issues (for CSV) by analysing the social issues based on whether the
company can make a significant contribution and whether they have a major impact on the
company's long-term growth, for each area of economy, society, and organisational governance.
Step 3: Identifying core initiatives to underpin priority issues
The company decides on core initiatives to respond to each priority issue.
Step 4: Reporting to the management team
The identified core initiatives are reported to the management team and reflected in the mediumterm management plan.
1. Diversified/large-scale
accidents and/or disasters
2. Global environment
approaches the limit
3. Mounting burden of
nursing/medical care due to
aging population
4. Economic slowdown by
widening inequality
Firm F's priority issues
27

 Example 2.3: Materiality analysis from Japanese pharmaceutical firm "G"
Firm G has concluded that in order to sustainably maximise corporate value for the satisfaction of
all stakeholders, it is efficient to focus on long-term investors as they are the beneficiaries of
residual income. With the long-term interests of all stakeholders taken into account, G identifies
material issues with the belief that finding which issues relate to long-term investor interests and
prioritising action on these is a fast-track way to maximise corporate value.
Process 1: Identification of issues
G picks out a range of issues with reference to various frameworks (SASB, GRI, SDGs),
communication with stakeholders, and metrics used for evaluation of socially responsible
investment.
Process 2: Prioritisation of issues and creation of materiality matrix
The company then creates a matrix (below) to decide on the order of priority of each issue
depending on its "impact on the company's business" including impact on finances and the
corporate philosophy, and its "interest to long-term investors" including its financial reporting,
opportunities to create innovation, and the impact of legal restrictions, etc.
Process 3: Reviews and updates
The company carries out reviews and updates where needed, taking into consideration the progress
of activity in response to the issues and changes in the business environment.
Firm G's materiality matrix
• Initiatives against counterfeit
drugs
• Business with consideration for
the global environment
(reduction of CO2 emissions,
waste reduction, efficient use of
water resources)
• Promoting diversity
• Supporting employee health and
safety management
• Prevention of bribery and
corruption
• Information disclosure
• Promotion based on compliance
• Quality assurance and stable
supply
• Improving access to medicines
• Offering solutions that go beyond
providing pharmaceuticals
• Provision of opportunities to
develop careers and talent for
employees
• Creating innovative medicines
• Safety management for products
• Corporate governance system
• Compliance and risk
management
• Financial strategy
• Ethical and transparent drug
creation activities
• Protection and reinforcement of
intellectual property
• Appropriate pricing Interest to long-term investors Very high High High Impact on the company’s business Very high
28
Making a material issues longlist
If we look at existing company disclosure on materiality, there are a number of examples of
companies identifying material issues by first making a wide-ranging list of ESG issues from
international disclosure frameworks and analysis of their business environment, before narrowing
the list down to the most relevant material issues by evaluating each issue's importance.
If resources are limited and you find it difficult to make a longlist of ESG issues from scratch, the
below stages of the process are not essential, but creating a list of possible issues using existing
frameworks can enable you to find material issues which may otherwise have been missed with
discussions and viewpoints limited to within the company or to certain timeframes.
Analysis of business environment
A good first stage of looking into what ESG
issues may affect your corporate value or
sustainability is to analyse long-term changes in
the environment in which you do business.
Useful references for this can be found in
reports and other publications from
governments, international organisations, think
tanks and the like, both inside and outside of
Japan, such as the World Economic Forum's
publicly available Global Risks Report20
.
Using existing frameworks
As preparation for identifying material ESG
issues, the companies in the previous pages'
examples made longlists of possible material
issues partly by referring to existing frameworks.
Two examples of frameworks which can be
useful in this way are the SASB Standards and
the GRI Standards.
In addition, more companies have recently
begun referring to the 17 Goals and 169 Targets
that make up the SDGs in their disclosures.
20 The Global Risks Report can be accessed from the World Economic Forum website at
<https://jp.weforum.org/reports>
Using ESG rating agency surveys
Companies which research on ESG issues and
provide company ESG ratings (see page 43) are
referred to as ESG ratings agencies. In the
process of providing these ratings, such
agencies carry out surveys on listed companies
which focus on specific disclosure contents and
specific ESG activities chosen from the full range
of ESG issues depending on investor interest.
Although the surveys do not target all
companies and not all research contents or
methods are disclosed, agencies edit their
chosen issues year-to-year depending on
external changes and investor movements, so
they can be used as a reference while narrowing
down your material issues.
Dialogue with stakeholders
Candidates for ESG issues can also be found by
conducting interviews with stakeholders
(investors, employees, trading partners,
customers, experts, etc.) to find out what is
important to them and what they expect of your
company.
29
The sector-based approach
The material issues longlist will as a rule differ
depending on business models and lines of
business, etc., but for analysis of the business
environment, which is particularly important to
ESG, it can be said that many issues will be
common to a sector. The sector-based approach
is also important since many investors will be
deciding on investments by comparing
companies from one sector across the globe.
Some existing frameworks provide lists of
material issues which are common, to an extent,
to specific sectors. For example, SASB has set
specific disclosure points and targets for 77
separate sectors to encourage disclosure useful
for investment decisions.
If your company finds it difficult to identify
material issues by making a longlist from scratch,
one alternative could be to use an existing
sector-based list as a foundation.
30
Evaluating the importance of ESG issues
After a material issues longlist is created, it will need to be narrowed down by evaluating how
each issue links to corporate value. There is no set way to evaluate the importance of each issue, but
below are some points to consider based on actual cases of disclosure.
Setting evaluation factors
Once you have made a longlist, you will need to
find some kind of method of evaluating each
issue's importance in order to find which are
material. In the previous pages' examples,
companies evaluated each issue using factors
such as "Importance to the company" and
"Importance to stakeholders".
Evaluating issues in practice
Once you have chosen factors, you will then
need to evaluate the importance of each issue
using those factors. Below are some points to
consider when doing this.
1. Importance to the company
The importance of an issue to a company is
essentially how it links to the company's
sustainability and mid- to long-term corporate
value, but to judge this, many companies
identify the issue's connection to their company
philosophy or values, and analyse what kind of
risks it poses/opportunities it presents to the
company's strategy or each business, as well as
the impact of those and how often they could
occur.
2. Importance to stakeholders
The importance of an issue to a company's
stakeholders can be used as an evaluation factor,
but only if the company has decided who its
stakeholders are. For example, when thinking
from a perspective of linking ESG activities to
mid- to long-term corporate value creation,
your main stakeholders may be long-term
investors, but may also include customers,
employees, possibly even international
organisations, NGOs or the local community.
There are cases of companies sending out
surveys to their stakeholders in order to
evaluate or measure what is important to them,
and also companies conducting interviews with
experts in ESG issues who can speak on behalf
of multiple stakeholders.
Timeframes
There may be ESG issues which present risks
and opportunities to a company in different
ways depending on the timeframe. For example,
thinking about the effects of climate change, it
is likely that the impact on your company and
the actions you take in response will be different
in 20-30 years as opposed to 2-3 years. As a
result, when evaluating the importance of ESG
issues, it is important to think about what
timeframe(s) to focus on.
Involvement from the top
Companies may wish for the company's
executive officers and/or the Board of Directors,
etc. to be involved in making the final decisions
over what is material.
31
Material issues and strategy
In order for a company's responses to material issues to lead to improved corporate value, it is
important that the chosen material issues are reflected in company strategy or strategies for
individual business lines. In addition, when it comes to moving forward with ESG activities, it is
important to create a policy and/or action plan to guide these activities in line with those strategies.
Reflecting material issues in company
strategy
In order for the material issues you have
identified to contribute to corporate value, it is
important to reflect them in your company
strategy or objectives and work from there.
Then, it is important for investors that this is
explained in an integrated report or other
material. There are examples of companies
using their integrated report to explain the
connection between material issues and their
mid-term management plan or how the
company intendsto look in the mid to long term,
and even companies referring to materiality in
their top message.
Creating an ESG policy/action plan
When looking to move forward with ESG
activities in response to your chosen material
issues, it is important to create a policy and/or
action plan to guide those activities. This
policy/action plan can be developed based on
the company's business environment, its ideal
future vision and how it plans to achieve that,
and available resources.
32
In order for a company to link its chosen material ESG issues with corporate value creation, it is
important that activity in response to those issues is carried out as an organisation, and that said
organisation has a suitable and well-functioning governance system in place. Furthermore, by
disclosing information about the governance system, companies can enable investors to understand
how the activities that formed the basis of their investment decisions are actually contributing to the
company's sustainability and corporate value creation.
Related sections of existing frameworks
 SSE Model Guidance (2.1 Responsibility and Oversight; 2.3.2 Adopting relevant performance
indicators; 2.5.1 Robust internal ESG data collection and management processes)
 GRI Standards (101: Foundation; 102: General Disclosures; 103: Management Approach)
 IIRC Framework (Part II – The Integrated Report > 4. Content Elements)
 TCFD Recommendations (C Recommendations and Guidance > 3. Guidance for All Sectors > a.
Governance; d. Metrics and Targets)
 WFE ESG Guidance (Guidelines for report preparation > Governance/Responsibility and
oversight)
 METI, Guidance for Collaborative Value Creation (5. Performance and Key Performance
Indicators (KPIs); 6. Governance)
 SASB Standards (by sector)
Step 3: Oversight & Implementation
Sections
3-1 ESG in the decision-making process
 Commitment from the top
 Governance
3-2 Setting metrics and targets
 Setting metrics
 Setting targets
 Carrying out a PDCA
33
3-1 ESG in the decision-making process
 To begin activities in response to chosen material ESG issues and connect these to corporate value
creation, it is important to incorporate them into the structure of the company's decision-making
process as you would with other management issues. To do this, commitment from the top of the
organisation and a suitable governance system are essential.
Commitment from the top
In order to respond to ESG issues from the
perspective of corporate value creation, it is
important that the top-level management of
your organisation is involved and takes
responsibility. To show that management have
taken responsibility in a way useful to investors,
you could disclose for example a map of
allocations of responsibility for ESG issues, the
process for sharing information internally with
management, and/or how you monitor ESG
issues on an ongoing basis21
.
Governance
Each company should put in place a
governance system for ESG issues which fits to
that company, based on existing
management/governance systems. Most
importantly, however, identification of and
discussions on ESG issues should, like other
governance issues, take place within the
decision-making and oversight function, i.e. the
board of directors, and include outside directors.
If the company has a separate executive
board in charge of day-to-day operations below
the board of director or top management level,
21 One of TCFD's Recommended Disclosures is to "Describe management’s role in assessing and managing climaterelated risks and opportunities." (The TCFD Recommendations: <https://www.fsb-tcfd.org/wpcontent/uploads/2017/06/FINAL-2017-TCFD-Report-11052018.pdf> )
including ESG issues in this board's
responsibilities in the same way as other issues
will further link ESG issues to the company
strategy.
The function of the board of directors
The board of directors is responsible for
oversight of whether the response to ESG issues
is being suitably carried out, and whether this is
leading to corporate value creation. For this to
happen, it is important that there is a process
for reporting to the board, and that ESG issues
are included as part of discussions on strategy,
risk management, and business planning, etc.
The board should also monitor and oversee
progress towards targets related to ESG
activities.
Implementation (allocating a responsible
department)
For implementation of your company's
response to ESG issues, to support the above
governance system, you could either allocate a
responsible department within the existing
structure, or create a new designated unit
which can co-ordinate ESG issues across
departments. In either case, it is important that
34
the response to ESG issues is not carried out
independently by the responsible department,
but by the entire company. The responsible
department could have the following
responsibilities:
 Gathering/understanding information on
changes in the business environment:
Activity in response to ESG issues should
be carried out with a mid- to long-term
perspective, but it also can be expected
that the issues themselves or their
importance will shift over time in response
to external changes. The responsible
department for ESG will need to gather
and understand information on these
changes so that your company's material
issues can be reviewed regularly.
 Co-ordinating across departments: As
activity in response to ESG issues does not
always fall neatly within the
responsibilities of existing departments,
often requiring company-wide cooperation, the responsible department for
ESG can be expected to help the smooth
running of these projects by co-ordinating
across departments.
 Reporting to the board of
directors/executive boards: The
responsible department for ESG should
report to the board of directors and/or
other executive boards on analysis of ESG
issues and progress of ESG activities, etc.
 External engagement: The responsible
department for ESG should respond to
investor enquiries on ESG and surveys from
ESG ratings agencies and should
communicate with international
organisations, NGOs and others as
necessary.
 Spreading awareness within the company:
To move forward on ESG activities as an
organisation, it is important that your
material ESG issues and their connection
to corporate value and strategy, etc. is
understood throughout the company. The
responsible department for ESG could be
in charge of encouraging awareness
through creating opportunities for debate
or learning for all employees, starting
maybe with just general ESG issues and the
external environment.
35

Example 3.1: The sustainability management structure of Japanese manufacturing firm "H"
Firm H aims to contribute to the creation of a sustainable society and enhance corporate value,
by solving social issues through its business activities under the company philosophy.
The company identifies material issues using two factors: social issues that need to be solved
within the company's business areas, and issues that meet the expectations of stakeholders by
strengthening business foundations. It then sets targets related to these issues. In addition, the
company has set up a company-wide management structure in order to achieve these targets, and
has made steady progress in solving individual issues through Sustainability Promotion Committee
and Executive Council discussions, as well as engagement activities in response to stakeholder
evaluations. The Board of Directors receives reports from operating divisions, enabling it to
supervise and oversee all sustainability-related activity.
The sustainability management structure of firm H
36
3-2 Setting metrics and targets
To make sure that activities in response to material issues actually lead to corporate value creation,
where possible it is useful to set suitable metrics to measure progress by in line with the company's
strategy or ESG policy/action plan. In this case, suitable metrics should be set based on where and in
what way the chosen material issues will affect the company's business. It is also good to set targets
where possible.
However, for those just starting out with ESG disclosure, the setting of metrics and targets is
perhaps more difficult to implement than the other processes in this Handbook. In this case, it may
be advisable to begin disclosing the other points with a view to finding suitable metrics and targets
later on through dialogue with investors, etc.
Setting metrics
When beginning activities in response to
material issues, it is useful to make clear your
ideal future vision for the company and how you
intend to achieve it, and set metrics for each
issue to manage your progress. These metrics
may be qualitative or quantitative, but either
way they should be suitable for your company
based on your chosen material issues. While
these metrics can be unique to your company, it
is also possible to use metrics set out in existing
frameworks, as these take into account the
views of shareholders and enable easier
comparison between companies. For example,
SASB (p39), GRI (p40) and the World Federation
of Exchanges (WFE, the below table) have all
published possible metrics.
Setting targets
It is also recommended to add targets to
these metrics where suitable and disclose them.
When deciding on these, it is important to think
about what you need to aim for/achieve in the
short and mid term in order to achieve your
long-term vision or goals. It is also useful when
deciding targets to involve the businesses or
departments which will actually carry out the
related activities.
 In terms of how to set specific targets, each
company should use a process suitable for their
circumstances, but in general there are two
possible processes:
 Calculate future predictions by looking at
past achievements and set targets based
on those.
 Look at targets set by domestic or overseas
organisations or governments on
environmental and social issues and set
targets in reference to those.
The second of these is referred to as
"backcasting" and is endorsed by the TCFD
Recommendations (for climate change targets)
and others.
37
Carrying out a PDCA
As well as incorporating chosen material
issues into strategy and activities, companies
should make sure that each project is properly
moving forward by implementing a PDCA (plando-check-act) cycle. Like for other management
issues, a PDCA will involve evaluations of the
progress of a project and progress towards
related metrics and targets, and if problems are
found, improvements to the project and
reviews of the metrics and targets. In the case
of material ESG issues, many companies also
take into account changes in the external
environment and review the material issues
and/or their importance accordingly.
WFE’s ESG metrics
Based on WFE (2018) "WFE ESG Revised Metrics June 2018". See page 67-68 for more details
38

Raise the number of healthy
people, lower the number of
sick people, and contribute to
the people who are involved in
healthcare
Health and well-being
Create more opportunities for
customers to spend time with
their families and friends, and
develop the communities within
our supply chain
Community engagement
Realise a society based on
100% resource circulation by
2050
The environment
Example 3.2: Materiality and targets of Japanese consumable goods maker "I"
Firm I has identified "Health and well-being", "Community engagement" and "The
environment" as key social issues among the social issues that affect the company. To face these
issues, the company has formulated a Purpose (a long-term management vision) to guide how it
creates shared value with society and promotes sustainable growth. It has then created and
disclosed non-financial targets necessary to achieve its ideal future vision, based on this Purpose..
Firm I's material issues, commitments and targets Impact on social sustainability
Impact on the company’s business
Sustainable
supply chain
Safety and
security of
products
Health
and wellbeing
Human
rights
The
environ ment
Community
engagement
Human
resources and
corporate
culture
Corporate
governance
39
Metrics recommended by existing frameworks -1-
Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) (see pages 60-61 for more details on SASB)
With the aim of contributing to the decision-making process of mid- to long-term focused
investors, SASB has set disclosure standards for ESG issues that it identifies as reasonably likely to
have material impacts on companies in an industry, and published standards for 77 industries within
11 sectors in November 2018. The SASB Standards are available for download from the website below
(currently available only in English).
https://www.sasb.org/standards-overview/download-current-standards/
 Intended to help analyse a company's sustainability, the SASB Standards are based on 26 "General
Issue Categories" organised under five "Dimensions", as shown below.
 Disclosure Topics and Accounting Metrics are then set for each of the General Issues judged to be
material for each particular industry, and set out in detail in the Standards. Disclosure Topics and
Accounting Metrics for each sector/industry can also be found in the SASB Materiality Map, which is
available on the website: https://materiality.sasb.org/.
Disclosure Topics and Accounting Metrics as shown in the SASB Materiality Map
40
Metrics recommended by existing frameworks -2-
Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) (see pages 65-66 for more details on GRI)
GRI created its Standards including specific data points for disclosure as “the global best practice
for reporting on a range of economic, environmental and social impacts”. The Standards are available
from the below website, in both English and Japanese.
https://www.globalreporting.org/standards/gri-standards-download-center/
 As listed below, the GRI Standards are made up of "Universal Standards" (101, 102, and 103) and
"Topic-specific Standards" (200 series, 300 series, and 400 series). Issues for creating metrics are set
out in each topic-specific series.
-GRI 101: Foundation - a guide to how to use the GRI Standards
-GRI 102: General Disclosures - reporting an organisation's relevant contextual information
-GRI 103: Management Approach - reporting how material topics are managed
-GRI 200, 300, 400 series – data points for reporting information on an organisation's
economic, environmental, and social impact.
Overview of the GRI Standards Example page from a and an etopic xample -specific page from a GRI Standards topic-specific GRI Standard
Source: GRI (2016) "GRI Standards"
41
42
Sections
4-1 Organising disclosure contents
 The link to corporate value
 Investor information sources
4-2 Using existing frameworks
 Information disclosure frameworks
4-3 Further points for consideration
 Platforms for disclosure
 English disclosure
 Third-party assurance of ESG data
4-4 Two-way engagement with investors
 ”Purposeful dialogue”
 Other types of engagement
When disclosing risks and opportunities stemming from a company's material ESG issues, it is
important to disclose their relationship to strategy as well as corporate value, the oversight and
implementation structures put in place to support this, and the progress of ESG activities. This will
help investors to evaluate the company's mid- to long-term corporate value. In addition, carrying out
engagement with investors based on this disclosed information will lead to deeper understanding
from both sides, and help to move forward activities aimed at improving mid- to long-term corporate
value.
Related sections of existing frameworks
 SSE Model Guidance (2.4 Accessibility, 2.5.2 Engaging for continuous improvement, 2.5.3
Assessment and assurance)
 GRI Standards (101: Foundation; 102: General Disclosures; 103: Management Approach)
 IIRC Framework (Part II – The Integrated Report > 3. Guiding Principles; 4. Content Elements)
 TCFD Recommendations (C Recommendations and Guidance > 1. Overview of
Recommendations and Guidance; 2. Implementing the Recommendations)
 WFE ESG Guidance (Guidelines for report preparation > Quality & frequency of reporting)
 METI, Guidance for Collaborative Value Creation
 SASB Standards (by sector)
Step 4: Information Disclosure and Engagement
43
4-1 Organising disclosure contents
The link to corporate value
 When aiming for disclosure which is useful
for investors in evaluating your company's midto long-term corporate value, it will be
necessary to include information on the risks
and opportunities stemming from your chosen
material issues, and paint a clear picture of how
these link to strategy, governance systems,
targets, etc. and ultimately corporate value
overall.
 One good reference material for this is the
Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry's
Guidance for Collaborative Value Creation,
published in 2017. The Guidance provides
principles for communicating a company's
values, business model, strategy, and
governance, etc. to investors in an integrated
manner.
22 From 2018, GPIF has published "Excellent Integrated Reports and Most-improved Integrated Reports selected by
GPIF's asset managers entrusted with domestic equity investment". The 2020 winners can be seen on the below
link.
<https://www.gpif.go.jp/en/investment/20200319_excellent_and_most-improved_integrated_reports_2019.pdf>
23 Nikkei, Inc. has published the Nikkei Annual Report Awards since 1998 (Japanese only).
<http://adnet.nikkei.co.jp/a/ara/>
 The specific information you include will
depend on things like the company's
circumstances and who will be using the
information, but as a general rule for disclosure
aimed at investors, it is best to disclose
information on the below points while taking
into account their link to corporate value, as
discussed in Steps 2 and 3.
・ The link between ESG issues and strategy
・ Material ESG issues and how they were
identified
・ Governance systems and commitment
from the top
・ Metrics and targets
If you would like to obtain a better picture
of what good ESG disclosure can look like in
practice, companies like the Government
Pension Investment Fund (GPIF)22
 and Nikkei,
Inc.23
 release lists of integrated reports which
have been well-received by investors.
44
Investor information sources
So what kind of sources do investors actually use to gather information?
Asset managers, who are contracted by asset owners such as pension funds to manage their
assets in practice, gather information mainly from three routes:
1. Directly from companies through disclosure and engagement.
2. Buying ESG data, scores, or indices etc. from information vendors or ESG ratings agencies.
Vendors and ratings agencies calculate data and ESG scores from information collected both from
company disclosures and surveys sent directly to each company.
3. For the purpose of executing voting rights, from information sent from companies in and with
annual meeting notices, and sometimes data from proxy voting firms, in addition to the asset
manager's own voting policies and information.
When thinking about what ESG information to disclose and how to disclose it, it is important to
understand who will be using the information and how. Also, if you receive surveys or feedback forms
from ESG ratings agencies, looking at the topics included in them may help you see things from an
investor perspective.
Investor information sources
45

Inset 4.1: Disclosing quantitative data
Some investors use various types of quantitative ESG data in their investment decisions.
Quantitative data includes, for example, greenhouse gas emissions, energy usage, or statistics on
employee diversity.
One example of investors using data on greenhouse gas emissions is in Europe, where some
pension funds and other investors have committed to make the carbon emissions from their
investment portfolio net zero by 2050, and are therefore using investee companies' carbon emissions
data for portfolio management.
In response to varied demands from investors and to make their disclosures clearer, some
companies are now publishing quantitative data collectively in a data book or similar.
46
4-2 Using existing frameworks
Information disclosure frameworks
 Many listed companies use existing information disclosure frameworks for their ESG disclosure,
but when doing this, it is important to use the appropriate framework depending on who your
disclosure is aimed at. Even just for disclosure aimed at investors, which this Handbook is focusing
on, there are many existing frameworks which can be chosen depending on what kind of disclosure
you are looking at.
 A good summary of the existing frameworks can be found in "Study of ESG Information
Disclosure"
24 commissioned by GPIF and created by Nissay Asset Management Corporation. Listed
companies can use this information to gain an understanding of each framework's features and pick
the best one(s) to use for their company.
24 Government Pension Investment Fund (2019) "Study of ESG Information Disclosure" (Nissay Asset Management)
<https://www.gpif.go.jp/en/investment/research_2019_full_EN.pdf>
Key backgrounds and features of existing frameworks and standards
47
Source: Government Pension Investment fund (2019) "Study of ESG Information Disclosure" (Nissay Asset Management) p10-11
(edited slightly)
48
4-3 Further points for consideration
Platforms for disclosure
 The number of companies choosing to
publish integrated reports, aimed mostly at
investors, for their voluntary ESG disclosure is
rising every year. There are also companies
which aim disclosure at a broader range of
stakeholders by publishing a wide range of ESG
information in a sustainability report, CSR
report, environmental report or similar (some
companies who disclose a lot of quantitative
information also create data books, etc.). In
addition to these publications, many companies
also create a related page on their website to
publish ESG information.
 Listed companies will need to make
appropriate decisions on what disclosure
platform to use, and whether their information
is aimed at mainly investors or other
stakeholders, by considering the needs of
investors and other stakeholders for ESG
information, the contents of the information,
and its importance, etc.
English disclosure
 It is recommended that listed companies
disclose and provide their ESG information in
English so that overseas investors can easily
access the information, taking into account
what proportion of your investors are overseas.
Third-party assurance of ESG data
 As ESG investment grows and deepens, the
importance of ESG information for making
investment decisions and for engagement is
also growing. From this perspective, it is
expected that demand will rise from investors
for companies' ESG information to be assured
by a third party, to ensure its reliability.
49

Inset 4.2: Disclosing ESG information via TDnet
In December 2019, Tokyo Stock Exchange updated its "TDnet" (Timely Disclosure network) system,
which notifies investors of releases of company information, to allow the disclosure and use of ESG
information via the system to improve its convenience for investors.
Specifically, there is now a specific option to make it easier for companies to register their ESGrelated reports (any materials including ESG information, for example integrated reports, annual
reports, sustainability reports, CSR reports, environmental impact reports, etc.) on the TDnet system
(there are also options for English-language ESG reports).
ESG-related reports registered on TDnet are shared with investors in the following ways:
1. They are included on each company's page on the JPX website's "Listed Company Search"*
function. This function allows investors to see company information such as financial results,
timely disclosure on corporate actions, etc., articles of incorporation, AGM notices, and
corporate governance reports. Including ESG-related reports in the same place creates a platform
enabling access to all the information investors both in Japan and abroad need to choose new
investee companies, evaluate corporate value and make investment decisions with a more midto long-term outlook.
2. They are included in the TDnet Database Service (TDnetDBS)**. This service allows subscribers
to search for and view information registered on TDnet in the past five years for all companies
listed on an exchange in Japan. Adding ESG-related reports enables subscribers to search for just
companies who have registered ESG information. TSE-listed companies can access the same
information through the Listed Company Database***.
3. Information registered on TDnet is automatically sent out to media outlets and information
vendors. This enables the information to reach a wider range of stakeholders.
For a listed company, TDnet could be a very useful way to make sure that the ESG-related reports
you make reach a wide range of investors and other stakeholders, so please consider using it.
*Listed Company Search:
https://www.jpx.co.jp/english/listing/co-search/index.html
**TDnetDBS:
https://www.jpx.co.jp/english/markets/paid-info-equities/reference/05.html
***Listed Company Database (Japanese only, TDnet ID and password required)
https://www.dwd4.tdnet.info/dbsl/jsp/main.jsp
50
4-4 Two-way engagement with investors
"Purposeful dialogue"
 When aiming for mid- to long-term value
creation, it is important to engage with
investors based on the information you disclose.
Engagement can also be called "purposeful
dialogue". As written in the Stewardship Code
and Corporate Governance Code, institutional
investors are being asked to carry out
constructive "purposeful dialogue"
(engagement) based on in-depth knowledge of
their investee companies and the companies'
business environments. Engagement enables
investors to deepen their understanding of how
a company is responding to and working on
issues including ESG from a risk and opportunity
perspective. This knowledge is then used in
investment decisions and the results reported
to pension funds and other asset owners.
 For companies, this kind of dialogue
provides a good opportunity to give more indepth information to investors about the
company's response to ESG issues, the thinking
behind that response and its connection to
corporate value. However, it is also an
opportunity to hear the investor's point of view,
and can be a springboard for new ideas, growth
and innovation which can lead to improvements
in your business, so companies should actively
take part.
Other types of engagement
 Engagement with investors is not just for
ESG issues, but covers a wide range of activities
that companies carry out under the umbrella of
investor relations (IR). Investors carry out
engagement through activities such as the
voting process, meetings with individual
companies, sending out opinions to individual
companies, and sometimes attending ESG
briefings held by companies. In addition,
recently there has been an increase in
"collective engagement", where multiple
investors work together to engage with a
company as a group. These include the global
institutional investor group Climate Action 100+,
which engages constructively with companies
which have a large impact on global
environmental issues, encouraging them to
disclose more information and decrease their
greenhouse gas emissions, among other things.
51
 There is no definitive way of doing ESG
disclosure and no format established as the
norm. In addition, the goalposts are constantly
moving as the ESG issues important to
companies and investors change. It is possible
to see responding to ESG issues and carrying out
disclosure as a "journey". For these reasons,
however, many companies may experience
difficulties.
It is important that rather than aiming for
perfection first time, companies take the first
step using whatever resources or information
they are able to. Having made that first move,
companies can then use engagement with
investors and other stakeholders to help find a
suitable plan for improving corporate value over
the long term within a changing environment.
The next step isto move towards carrying it out.
We hope that this Handbook can be a useful
guide on this journey.
Afterword
52
This handbook refers to the following existing frameworks:
 Sustainable Stock Exchanges (SSE) Initiative: Model Guidance on Reporting ESG Information to
Investors ("SSE Model Guidance")
 Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry (METI): Guidance for Integrated Corporate Disclosure
and Company-Investor Dialogues for Collaborative Value Creation - ESG integration, nonfinancial information disclosure and intangible assets into investment ("Guidance for
Collaborative Value Creation")
 Recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) ("TCFD
Recommendations")
 Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) Standards
 International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC): International Integrated Reporting Framework
("IIRC Framework")
 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards
 World Federation of Exchanges (WFE): ESG Guidance and Metrics
Appendix: Outlines of existing frameworks
53
 Sustainable Stock Exchanges Initiative: Model Guidance on Reporting
ESG Information to Investors
 What is the SSE Initiative?
The Sustainable Stock Exchanges (SSE) Initiative was set up as a UN Partner Program in 2009 aimed
at the world's stock exchanges, and is organised by the UN Conference on Trade and Development
(UNCTAD), the UN Global Compact, the UN Environment Programme Finance Initiative (UNEP FI), and
the Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI). As of February 2020 there are 90 member exchanges.
The Initiative is a platform for members to deliberate amongst themselves and learn about issues
such as how to promote sustainable finance and what can be done to help companies with their ESG
activities and to improve performance, while collaborating with investors, regulators, listed
companies, and other stakeholders. JPX joined the SSE Initiative in December 2017.
 SSE Model Guidance
SSE published its "Model Guidance on Reporting ESG Information to Investors: A Voluntary Tool For
Stock Exchanges to Guide Issuers" in 2015 as a guide for member exchanges. The Guidance was
intended as a model for exchanges to use when writing bespoke guidance for their own listed
companies on ESG disclosure, and sets out points and views it sees as useful to include in those
guidelines (see next page for a list of contents).
JPX created and published a Japanese translation of the Model Guidance in June 2019.
 Access links/related information
The Model Guidance on Reporting ESG Information to Investors: A Voluntary Tool For Stock Exchanges
to Guide Issuers can be downloaded from the SSE website:
https://sseinitiative.org/publication/model-guidance-on-reporting-esg-information-to-investors-avoluntary-tool-for-stock-exchanges-to-guide-issuers/
The Japanese translation of the Model Guidance can be accessed from the JPX website:
https://www.jpx.co.jp/corporate/news/news-releases/0060/nlsgeu000004239vatt/SSE_Initiatives_j.pdf
SSE Initiative website:
https://sseinitiative.org/
54
SSE Model Guidance: Front page and contents
Source: SSE Initiative (2015) "Model Guidance on Reporting ESG Information to Investors: A Voluntary Tool For
Stock Exchanges to Guide Issuers"; JPX (2019) "ESG jōhō no hōkoku ni kansuru kigyō muke moderu gaidansu"
55
 Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry: Guidance for Collaborative
Value Creation
The Japanese Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry (METI) released their "Guidance for
Integrated Corporate Disclosure and Company-Investor Dialogues for Collaborative Value Creation -
ESG integration, non-financial information disclosure and intangible assets into investment" in 2017.
The Guidance was based on a proposal by the Study Group on Long-term Investment (Investment
evaluating ESG Factors and Intangible Assets) toward Sustainable Growth, which was set up by METI.
It formulated and proposed a basic framework for promoting dialogue between companies and
investors and for enhancing the quality of information disclosure, in the hope that it would serve as
guidance for voluntary and proactive initiatives.
 Important features of the Guidance
The Guidance is intended to deepen mutual understanding between companies and investors
through information disclosure and dialogue/engagement and promote collaborative activities to
create sustainable value. From that viewpoint, the Guidance is expected to fulfill two main roles:
1. As a guideline for corporate managers and directors
First, the Guidance is expected to serve as a guideline according to which corporate managers and
directors are able to comprehensively communicate key information to investors, including their
management philosophies, business models, strategies and governance systems. As a direct goal, the
Guidance aims to promote corporate information disclosure and enhance the quality of companyinvestor dialogue. Through efforts to achieve this goal, corporate managers and directors are
expected to review their approaches to business management and take further actions with a view
to creating corporate value.
2. As a guideline for investors
Second, the Guidance is expected to serve as a guideline for investors in evaluating companies from
a long-term perspective, making investment decisions, and conducting stewardship activities. Instead
of waiting for companies to provide the information with respect to the items in the Guidance,
investors and analysts are expected to initiate dialogue with companies in order to obtain the
information necessary for their investment decisions and remedy any information/perception gaps
by referring to the Guidance. The Guidance is also designed to be used as a framework for investors
to monitor investee companies and conduct dialogue to fulfill their stewardship responsibilities. It is
expected that the Guidance will not only be used when institutional investors engage in stewardship
activities themselves, but also when asset owners hold dialogue with asset managers.
56
Source: METI (2017) "Kachi kyōsō no tame no sōgōteki kaiji/taiwa gaidansu – ESG/hizaimujōhō to mukei shisan tōshi"; METI (2017
translation) "Guidance for Integrated Corporate Disclosure and Company-Investor Dialogues for Collaborative Value Creation - ESG
integration, non-financial information disclosure and intangible assets into investment"
 Access links/related information
METI's Guidance for Collaborative Value Creation can be downloaded from the METI website:
https://www.meti.go.jp/english/press/2017/pdf/0529_004b.pdf
METI's Guidance for Collaborative Value Creation: front page and overview
57
 Recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-related Financial
Disclosures (TCFD)
 What is TCFD?
The Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) was set up in December 2015 by the
Financial Stability Board (FSB), at the request of the G20 Finance Ministers and Central Bank
Governors meeting, to consider disclosure of climate-related information and how financial
institutions should react to climate change. The Task Force deliberated with the aim of creating
recommendations to encourage information disclosure with the consistency, comparability,
credibility, and clarity needed for appropriate investment decisions based on climate change metrics.
They published their Final Recommendations in June 2017. The number of companies and
organisations worldwide which have officially expressed support for the Recommendations is
growing, and stands at over 1050 as of February 2020. Of any single country, Japan has the most TCFD
supporters with other 240. JPX expressed its support in October 2018.
 The composition of the Recommendations
The Recommendations published in June 2017 are made up of three publications:
Final Report: Recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures
This is the main report which is often referred to as the "TCFD Recommendations". After an
explanation on climate-related risks, opportunities and financial impacts, it sets out
"Recommendations and Guidance" which apply to all sectors, financial and non-financial. In addition,
it writes about the need for scenario analysis and recommends how to approach it.
58
Annex: Implementing the Recommendations of the TCFD
This is supplemental guidance for a) the financial sector and b) non-financial sectors, which are
expected to be more heavily impacted by climate change and the shift to a low-carbon economy. It
provides more detailed guidance for each sector: banks, insurance companies, asset owners, and
asset managers for the financial sector, and energy, transportation, materials and buildings, and
agriculture, food, and forest products for non-financial sectors, taking into account their differences.
Technical Supplement: The Use of Scenario Analysis in Disclosure of Climate-Related Risks and
Opportunities
This technical supplemental report sets out the details of "scenario analysis" and key things to think
about when applying it, in order to support companies in creating disclosure based on the TCFD
Recommendations.
TCFD recommends that companies be aware of the "risks" and "opportunities" arising from climate
change that could affect their business activities, and disclose on the following four topics:
・ Governance: What kind of governance structure is in place to consider climate change and
is this reflected in company management?
・ Strategy: What kind of impact will climate change have on company management in the
short, medium, and long term? How did you come to these conclusions?
・ Risk Management: How do you identify and evaluate climate-related risks, and how are you
trying to mitigate these?
・ Metrics and Targets: What metrics do you use to identify risks and opportunities and
measure progress towards targets?
 TCFD in Japan
In May 2019, a Japanese "TCFD Consortium" was launched as a platform for debate on how to make
company disclosure based on the TCFD Recommendations more effective, and how to make sure that
it leads to more appropriate investment decisions from financial institutions. The Consortium is
comprised of a General Meeting, Planning Committee, Working Group for information disclosure,
Working Group for information usage, and outreach events.
As a result of deliberations by the Working Group for information usage on how investors can use
TCFD-based disclosure, in October 2019 the Consortium published its Guidance for Utilizing Climaterelated Information to Promote Green Investment ("Green Investment Guidance", https://tcfdconsortium.jp/en/news_detail/19100802). The Guidance provides commentary on perspectives
investors need to consider to understand TCFD-based disclosures, and for companies, provides a way
59
to better understand the perspectives of investors and other stakeholders.
The Working Group for information disclosure on the other hand, which debates topics such as
specific contents of TCFD-based disclosure, has been working on an update of the Ministry of
Economy, Trade and Industry's Guidance for Climate-related Financial Disclosures ("TCFD Guidance",
https://www.meti.go.jp/english/press/2018/1225_006.html), which was first published in August
2018. This TCFD Guidance was written by METI's "TCFD Study Group on Implementing TCFD
Recommendations for mobilizing green finance through proactive corporate disclosures" and aims to
provide information and case examples to explain approaches to TCFD-based disclosure, as well as
industry-based viewpoints that companies should take to show their efforts.
Outside of the TCFD Consortium, the Japanese Ministry of the Environment (MOEJ) has also been
active, running a support program for companies to analyse their own climate risks and opportunities
in line with the TCFD Recommendations from FY2018. This led to the creation of a Practical Guide for
Scenario Analysis in Line with TCFD Recommendations, published in March 2019
(https://www.env.go.jp/en/headline/2396.html), which brought together examples from the
companies within the program. MOEJ released a 2nd Edition
(https://www.env.go.jp/en/headline/2439.html) in March 2020, adding a) scenario analysis key
points of practice, b) practical examples from 12 companies supported by MOEJ in 2019, and c)
useful materials for scenario analysis.
 Access links/related information
The TCFD Recommendations can be downloaded from the TCFD website.
https://www.fsb-tcfd.org/publications/
A Japanese translation of the Final Recommendations can also be downloaded from the TCFD website.
https://www.fsb-tcfd.org/wp-content/uploads/2017/06/TCFD_Final_Report_Japanese.pdf
Related information, including the Green Investment Guidance, can be found on the TCFD
Consortium website.
https://tcfd-consortium.jp/en
60
 Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) Standards
 What is SASB?
The Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) is a non-profit organisation which was set up
in San Francisco, USA in 2011. Looking to improve the quality of company reporting so it can
contribute to the decision-making process of mid- to long-term focused investors, SASB has set
disclosure standards relating to ESG issues that it identifies as reasonably likely to have material
impacts on companies in the future.
 The SASB Standards
After its launch, SASB spent around six years conducting debate and analysis together with experts,
investors, academics and others, and in November 2018, published disclosure standards for 77
industries within 11 sectors.
Intended to help analyse a company's sustainability, the SASB Standards are based on 26 "General
Issue Categories" organised under five "Dimensions", as shown below.
Source: SASB website
Disclosure Topics and Accounting Metrics are then set for each of the General Issues judged to be
material for each particular industry, and set out in detail in the Standards. Disclosure Topics and
Accounting Metrics for each sector/industry can also be found in the SASB Materiality Map
(https://materiality.sasb.org/). The image on the next page shows Disclosure Topics and Accounting
Metrics for the agricultural products industry as shown on the Materiality Map.
61
Source: SASB Materiality Map
 Other tools from SASB
As well as the Standards, SASB have also published reports on topics such as disclosure of
sustainability information and engagement. For example, the Engagement Guide for Asset Owners
and Asset Managers (https://www.sasb.org/knowledge-hub/engagement-guide/) gives investors
guidance on how to engage with investee companies. SASB plans to translate this Guide into Japanese.
To aim for implementation of TCFD-based disclosure, SASB has also published a TCFD Implementation
Guide (https://www.sasb.org/knowledge-hub/tcfd-implementation-guide/) in co-operation with the
Climate Disclosure Standards Board (CDSB), and has translated this into Japanese
(https://www.sasb.org/knowledge-hub/tcfd-implementation-guide-japanese/).
 Access links/related information
The SASB Standards are currently only available in English, but can be downloaded from the SASB
website:
https://www.sasb.org/standards-overview/download-current-standards/
The SASB Materiality Map
62
 International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC): International
Integrated Reporting Framework ("IIRC Framework")
 What is IIRC?
The International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC) is a global coalition of regulators, investors,
companies, standard setters, the accounting profession, academia and NGOs which was set up in the
UK in 2010 by A4S (The Prince's Accounting for Sustainability Project) and GRI (Global Reporting
Initiative). Among its aims are to improve the quality of information available to providers of financial
capital and promote a more cohesive and efficient approach to corporate reporting.
 The IIRC Framework and its objectives
IIRC published The International <IR> Framework 25
 , setting out its position on the crafting of
integrated reports, in 2013, and since then, integrated reporting in Japan and around the world has
progressed massively. In February 2020, IIRC announced that a revision of the Framework is underway.
The Framework, as explained in the executive summary, "promotes a more cohesive and efficient
approach to corporate reporting and aimsto improve the quality of information available to providers
of financial capital to enable a more efficient and productive allocation of capital… The primary
purpose of an integrated report is to explain to providers of financial capital how an organization
creates value over time. An integrated report benefits all stakeholders interested in an organization’s
ability to create value over time, including employees, customers, suppliers, business partners, local
communities, legislators, regulators and policy-makers."
 Main elements of the IIRC Framework
1. Integrated Thinking
The IIRC Framework hopes that rather than companies just collecting various bits of information
and reporting them in one place, the report preparation process will cause "integrated thinking" (the
active consideration by an organization of the relationships between its various operating and
functional units and the capitals that the organization uses or affects) to spread through each
company, leading to changes in their actions and improved corporate value.
2. Guiding Principles
 The IIRC Framework sets Guiding Principles to underpin the preparation of an integrated report:
Strategic focus and future orientation; Connectivity of information; Stakeholder relationships;
Materiality; Conciseness; Reliability and completeness; Consistency and comparability.
25 IIRC "The <IR> Framework Revision: Inspiring better reporting" <https://integratedreporting.org/news/the-irframework-revision-inspiring-better-reporting/>
63
3. Content Elements
 The Framework defines eight "Content Elements" which must be included in an integrated report.
These are fundamentally linked to each other and are not mutually exclusive.
 Organizational overview and external environment: What does the organisation do and what
are the circumstances under which it operates?
 Governance: How does the organisation’s governance structure support its ability to create
value in the short, medium and long term?
 Business model: What is the organisation’s business model?
 Risks and opportunities: What are the specific risks and opportunities that affect the
organisation’s ability to create value over the short, medium and long term, and how is the
organisation dealing with them?
 Strategy and resource allocation: Where does the organisation want to go and how does it
intend to get there?
 Performance: To what extent has the organisation achieved its strategic objectives for the period
and what are its outcomes in terms of effects on the capitals?
 Outlook: What challenges and uncertainties is the organisation likely to encounter in pursuing
its strategy, and what are the potential implications for its business model and future
performance?
 Basis of presentation: How does the organisation determine what matters to include in the
integrated report and how are such matters quantified or evaluated?
The chart on the next page shows how these link to each other and to the value creation process.
 Access links/related information
The English and Japanese versions of the IIRC Framework can be downloaded from the IIRC website.
https://integratedreporting.org/resource/international-ir-framework/
64
Source: IIRC (2013) "International <IR> Framework"
IIRC Framework: front pages and chart of the value creation process
65
 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards
 What is GRI?
The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) was founded in 1997 by US non-profit the Coalition for
Environmentally Responsible Economies (CERES) and the UN Environment Program (UNEP), among
others, to encourage understanding and support the creation of sustainability reports among
organisations such as private companies and government agencies. It is currently based in
Amsterdam, the Netherlands.
 The GRI Standards
GRI released its first "GRI Guidelines" in 2000. After discussions with various stakeholders including
companies, NGOs, consultants, auditors, institutional investors, labour unions, and academics, it
released the fourth generation (G4) in 2013. Then, as the situation with sustainability reports
progressed, in 2016 it released the GRI Standards, an enhanced version of the Guidelines.
The GRI Standards see importance in not only what ESG issues can affect an organisation, but also
how an organisation can affect society or the environment: its introduction states that "Sustainability
reporting, as promoted by the GRI Standards, is an organization’s practice of reporting publicly on its
economic, environmental, and/or social impacts, and hence its contributions – positive or negative –
towards the goal of sustainable development."
 Structure of the GRI Standards
As listed below, the GRI Standards are made up of "Universal Standards" (101, 102, and 103) and
"Topic-specific Standards" (200 series, 300 series, and 400 series). The three Universal Standards are
applied to all organisations preparing sustainability reports. Organisations looking to report on
material issues specific to them (economic, environmental, social) can pick the relevant one from the
Topic-specific Standards.
-GRI 101: Foundation - a guide to how to use the GRI Standards
-GRI 102: General Disclosures - reporting an organisation's relevant contextual information
-GRI 103: Management Approach - reporting how material topics are managed
-GRI 200, 300, 400 series – data points for reporting information on an organisation's economic,
environmental, and social impact.
66
 Access links/related information
The GRI Standards can be downloaded from the GRI website.
English: https://www.globalreporting.org/standards
Japanese: https://www.globalreporting.org/standards/gri-standards-translations/gri-standardsjapanese-translations-download-center/
Overview of the GRI Standards and an example page from a Topic-specific Standard
Source: GRI (2016) "GRI Standards"
67
 World Federation of Exchanges (WFE): ESG Guidance and Metrics
 What is WFE?
The World Federation of Exchanges is a global industry association for the world's main exchanges
which was created in 1961, and currently has around 250 members, mostly exchanges and clearing
houses. JPX is a member of WFE and its CEO has been a WFE Board member since 2019.
In 2014, WFE set up a Sustainability Working Group to help advance activity on sustainable finance
and promoting ESG investment. Since then the Group has been working on things such as researching
and analysing member exchanges' sustainability activities and work on promoting ESG investment,
as well as creating sustainability principles and other guidance for the exchange industry. JPX has
been participating in the Sustainability Working Group, and become Vice-Chair in 2018.
 WFE ESG Guidance and Metrics
WFE published its ESG Guidance and Metrics in 2015, with the
aim of supplementing the SSE Model Guidance by providing a
reference point for exchanges looking to encourage ESG
reporting from their own listed companies. The Guidance is
based around 33 disclosure metrics. In 2018, taking into
account the previous year's TCFD Recommendations and
other developments, WFE released an updated version of the
guidance and metrics.
The Guidance gives the following four points as important for companies to consider when reporting
ESG information to investors.
 Governance/responsibility and oversight: A board statement setting out how the organisation
determines material issues, how these are embedded in the organisation’s strategy, how the
board reviews progress against targets, etc.
 Clarity of purpose/clear link to business value: Organisations should make clear how their
selected ESG issues link to value creation/destruction.
 Materiality: Organisations should explain to investors how they identify their material issues.
 Quality and frequency of reporting: Organisations should make sure that their reporting is
accurate, timely, and follows one of the internationally recognised reporting standards.
68
Metrics introduced in the WFE ESG Guidance and Metrics

