LuxSE
Guide to ESG
Reporting
January 2021

Table of content
 Foreword from LuxSE CEO 2
 About the Luxembourg Stock Exchange 5
 Introduction and purpose 6
1 Luxembourg
Stock Exchange 9
2 What is ESG and
why it is important? 11
3 Why report on ESG? 12
3.1 Meeting investor interest in ESG factors 12
3.2 Getting ahead of policy and regulatory
developments 14
3.3 Strengthening financial performance 16
3.4 LuxSE Guide to ESG Reporting 16
4 Companies 19
4.1 Assigning roles for the preparation of the report 20
4.2 Aligning the report with corporate strategy 21
4.3 Engaging stakeholders 22
4.4 Identifying and understanding the audience 22
4.5 Identifying the themes and defining
a materiality matrix 23
4.6 Assessing the relevance
of performance indicators 24
4.7 Collecting data for the report 25
4.8 Identifying the format
and communication channels 26
4.9 Considering internal audit
and external assurance 27
5 Issuers of sustainable
debt instruments 29
5.1 Identifying and defining ESG activities
and strategies 30
5.2 Defining ESG procedures
and disclosing information pre-issuance 31
5.3 Evaluating relevant reporting categories
and performance indicators 32
5.4 Taking stock of internal data processes
and collecting data 33
5.5 Deciding on the best format
and reporting period for publication 33
5.6 Considering external assurance 33
6 Asset managers 35
6.1 Identifying and defining ESG activities
and strategies 36
6.2 Defining ESG procedures
and disclosing information 38
6.3 Evaluating relevant reporting categories
and performance indicators 39
6.4 Taking stock of internal data processes
and collecting data 39
6.5 Deciding on the best format
and reporting period for publication 40
6.6 Considering external assurance 40
 Appendices 42
 Appendix A:
Local initiatives regarding ESG and CSR 43
 Appendix B:
Questions to guide ESG report preparation 44
 Appendix C:
Reporting initiatives 49
 Appendix D:
Global sustainability standards and principles 52
 Appendix E:
Template for green, social
and sustainability bond reporting 54
Luxembourg Stock Exchange | Guide to ESG Reporting 1
Robert Scharfe
Chief Executive Officer
Placing ESG considerations
at the heart of your organisation
is an inevitable step towards
more sustainable growth
and better performance
Foreword from the CEO
In the fast-paced world we live in,
companies strive to stay ahead of
the game by focusing their energy on
innovation, cyber-security, research
and development. And while all these
are important aspects of our industry,
Environmental, Social and Governance
(ESG)-related opportunities and risks
should be given precedence in order
to truly pave the road to success
and a more sustainable future.
When organisations choose to embrace
ESG in today’s competitive climate, they
solidify their role as pioneers of the future,
rather than mere followers of global trends.
We are in a period of great transition.
While some organisations are already
on their way to fully integrating ESG at
the core of their businesses, others are
only starting to get their minds around
the concept. We should be inclusive and
engage all stakeholders as only through
combined and global efforts can we help
ESG considerations evolve from being
niche to becoming mainstream.
The role of stock exchanges in this
process is, and will continue to be,
incredibly important. We must embrace
this role head on by encouraging issuers
and investors to consider ESG aspects
as an opportunity, promoting their efforts
to comply with best market practices
and giving investors clarity and trust.
For these reasons, I am glad to share
with you the LuxSE Guide to ESG
Reporting, which I hope you will find of
practical use. Placing ESG considerations
at the heart of your organisation is an
inevitable step towards more sustainable
growth and better performance.
This document offers guidance to
companies, issuers and asset managers
and constitutes a roadmap for advancing
ESG integration into businesses of all sizes.
Consistently integrating ESG considerations
into business decisions is – and will
increasingly be – a key indicator of
good business, as sustainable business
is better business.
Robert Scharfe,
CEO of the Luxembourg Stock Exchange
2 Luxembourg Stock Exchange | Guide to ESG Reporting
Environmental, social and corporate
governance (ESG) data is now
in high demand from the biggest
institutional investors in the world
Foreword
The Luxembourg Stock Exchange has been a market
innovator, leader and supporter for climate finance
and sustainability not only in their own market but
worldwide. With the world’s first dedicated green stock
exchange, the Luxembourg Green Exchange has opened
new channels for sustainable finance and is reinforcing
the role of capital markets in achieving the targets
of the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).
The Luxembourg Stock Exchange is well known
for its leadership in the space of green finance, and
in particular debt financing for green initiatives.
It is because of this leadership that we invited the
exchange to chair the UN Sustainable Stock Exchanges
(SSE) Advisory Group on Green Finance in 2017.
That same year, the Luxembourg Stock Exchange
hosted the SSE Green Finance Dialogue on the
sidelines of the United Nations climate change
conference (COP23) in Bonn, Germany.
Today, we applaud the Luxembourg Stock Exchange
for their commitment to promoting sustainability and
transparency from issuers across the entire capital market
spectrum. As one of the organizers of the SSE initiative,
UNCTAD welcomes this new guidance on ESG disclosure.
Building on the "Ten Principles of Corporate Governance"
launched by the exchange in 2006, this guidance
demonstrates how stock exchanges can contribute
to sustainable development and help to tackle the twentyfirst century’s biggest sustainability challenges.
Global policy developments such as the Sustainable
Development Goals and the Paris Agreement on
climate change make clear the task before us and the
imperative to take action. Achieving the global goals
will require significant investment. UNCTAD estimates
that developing countries alone will face an annual
funding gap of $2.5 trillion in order to achieve the
SDGs by 2030. Private sector contributions – through
both good governance in business practices and
investment in sustainable development – will be critical
to the realization of the SDGs.
The investment world increasingly recognizes this.
Environmental, social and corporate governance
(ESG) data is now in high demand from the biggest
institutional investors in the world. Stock exchanges
are playing a key role in the education and training
of companies in order to supply this growing demand
for new information. In 2019 approximately half
of all stock exchanges are providing written guidance
and training on ESG reporting. Updating guidance to
reflect market demand – such as what Luxembourg
has done with this new guidance document – is key
to ensuring issuers are able to meet investor demand
for ESG information.
Since the SSE’s founding in 2009, UNCTAD and our
SSE co-organizers – UNEP, the UN Global Compact,
and the PRI – have been working with stock exchanges
around the world to promote improved ESG practices
and investment in sustainable development. Stock
exchanges and their surrounding ecosystem of issuers,
investors and regulators have a critically important role
to play in the achievement of the SDGs. We hope other
exchanges will benefit from the sustainable finance
innovations demonstrated by Luxembourg Stock
Exchange, and we encourage all issuers to incorporate
the recommendations in this guidance to ensure their
reporting is fit for purpose in the 21st century.
James Zhan
Chair, Governing Board, UN Sustainable Stock Exchanges
Director, Investment & Enterprise Division,
United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD)
Luxembourg Stock Exchange | Guide to ESG Reporting 3
About the Luxembourg
Stock Exchange
4 Luxembourg Stock Exchange | Guide to ESG Reporting
About the Luxembourg Stock Exchange
Founded in 1928, the Luxembourg Stock Exchange (LuxSE) is the worldwide
leader in the listing of international securities. With its first mover attitude
over the last 50 years, LuxSE has actively contributed to the development
of international capital markets.
LuxSE has a strong culture of servicing international clients and addressing
their specific needs. Thanks to its stringent but business-friendly criteria and
admission process, LuxSE provides the highest transparency to investors.
By providing increased visibility to issuers, LuxSE is the gateway to access
international investors. Issuers on LuxSE benefit from the country’s vibrant
and integrated financial ecosystem and proximity to a powerful network
of international experts.
About the Luxembourg Green Exchange
Launched in 2016, the Luxembourg Green Exchange (LGX) is the world’s largest
platform dedicated exclusively to sustainable finance.
By displaying securities on LGX, issuers generate awareness around their
projects and investment portfolios. The platform also caters to sustainable
and responsible investors by providing full and unrestricted access
to a comprehensive online database of information on sustainable instruments.
This LuxSE Guide to ESG Reporting has been developed using the vast experience
which we have gained at the centre of the sustainable finance marketplace.
For further questions and feedback
If you have any further queries or wish to provide feedback on LuxSE Guide
to ESG Reporting, please feel free to contact the Luxembourg Green
Exchange team at lgx@bourse.lu to voice all questions and suggestions.
We would be glad to receive your feedback in order to keep this guide
as relevant and up-to-date as possible.
Luxembourg Stock Exchange | Guide to ESG Reporting 5
Introduction and purpose
With the growing global concern surrounding the
achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals
(SDG) by 2030, investors and other financial market
players are increasingly interested in understanding
how organisations manage their material ESG
opportunities and risks, and how they deliver on ESG
positive impact. Stock exchanges have the ability to act
as catalysts for financial markets in providing guidance
for appropriate ESG reporting.
At LuxSE, we are committed to promoting transparency
on ESG matters through encouraging the reporting
thereof. This document therefore provides information
on how organisations can integrate such ESG matters
into their reporting by focusing on providing guidance
for three different kinds of stakeholders:
1 Companies
2 Issuers of debt instruments (i.e. bonds)
3 Asset Managers active in SRI funds
The distinction between these three kinds of
stakeholders has been made in order to illustrate the
way in which ESG issues are integrated into decisionmaking and how reporting differs across these
stakeholders in various fundamental ways. This firstof-its-kind report therefore ensures that stakeholders
will find this document relevant and useful for starting,
or continuing, their journey to integrate ESG into their
value creation process.
In terms of this document’s distinction between the
different kinds of stakeholders, companies may find
this guide complementary to LuxSE’s "Ten Principles
of Corporate Governance", while bond issuers and asset
managers will find further resources on how to capture
and disseminate ESG information relevant to their products
present within the following pages.
By publishing this guide, we would like to reaffirm
our commitment to contributing to the achievement
of the SDGs by furthering transparency and supporting
Principle 2 of the "World Federation of Exchanges
(WFE) Sustainability Principles", which refers to the
role of stock exchanges in enhancing the availability
of investor-relevant, decision-useful ESG information.
In addition, this guide has been inspired by the "Model
Guidance on Reporting ESG Information to Investors"
published by the United Nations Sustainable Stock
Exchanges (UN SSE) Initiative.
In the Appendices, the reader will also find a list
of questions that may help in the preparation of such
a report (Appendix A), as well as a list of frameworks
and tools (Appendix B, Appendix C and Appendix D)
to help them do so effectively.
While the guidance in this document has been
compiled in accordance with ESG fundamentals,
the topic is evolving quickly. We therefore intend
to review this document on a regular basis to ensure
it remains aligned to market practice and is fit for purpose.
Disclaimer
The present guide and all information contained
herein (collectively the "Guide") are made available
for information purposes. The Guide cannot be
disseminated, displayed, sold or distributed, in any
manner, in whole or in part, freely or against payment,
without the prior written consent of the Luxembourg
Stock Exchange ("LuxSE").
Although part of the information contained within the
Guide has been collected from external sources that
are deemed reliable in LuxSE’s reasonable opinion,
LuxSE does not give any representation or warranty
and disclaims any liability or responsibility of any kind
in connection with the accuracy, correctness,
timeliness, fitness for a particular purpose, reliability
or completeness of the Guide.
The Guide is not and shall not be a substitute for your
company’s researches, investigations, verifications,
checks or consultation for professional or investment
advice. Neither does the publication of the Guide
by LuxSE represent or constitute any warranty or
representation from LuxSE in connection with the good
standing, profitability, suitability or reliability of any
financial instrument and/or of any organisation.
"Luxembourg Stock Exchange", "Luxembourg Green
Exchange" and "LGX" are LuxSE’s trademarks. No part
of these trademarks or any other trademark owned
by LuxSE can be used, reproduced or transmitted
in any form without express written consent by LuxSE.
6 Luxembourg Stock Exchange | Guide to ESG Reporting
Luxembourg Stock Exchange | Guide to ESG Reporting 7
1 Luxembourg Stock
Exchange
Our commitment
to sustainability
and transparency
8 Luxembourg Stock Exchange | Guide to ESG Reporting
LuxSE has a long-standing history of promoting
sustainability and transparency amongst its issuers
and across different players in the capital markets.
In 2006, we introduced the "Ten Principles of Corporate
Governance" (the "Ten Principles"), which must be met
by all Luxembourgish companies listed on the Regulated
Market of LuxSE. The Ten Principles focus on embedding
corporate governance in companies’ corporate culture
and promoting integrity, responsibility, transparent
decision-making processes and respect for the interests
of shareholders and other stakeholders. In 2017,
we revised these principles in order to integrate
a new corporate social responsibility (CSR) principle.
Principle 9 requires companies to describe how they
create long-term value by integrating CSR in their
corporate strategy. In addition, companies must now
analyse the sustainability of their activities and present
the relating CSR information in either a dedicated report,
or as part of an overall management report.
This also requires company boards to regularly consider
non-financial risks and publish the methodology behind
their CSR performance indicators and data.
In 2016, we launched the Luxembourg Green Exchange
(LGX) which is currently the largest platform in the
world exclusively dedicated to sustainable finance.
By displaying their securities on LGX and engaging
in continuous reporting, issuers and asset managers
generate awareness around their projects and
investment portfolios. The platform caters
to environmentally and socially-conscious investors
by providing full and unrestricted access
to a comprehensive online database of ESG reporting
information on sustainable financial instruments.
We are committed to progressing the international
sustainability agenda. We have been a partner
of the UN SSE Initiative since 2016 and have chaired
the UN SSE’s Advisory Group which was responsible for
the development of the report on "How Stock Exchanges
Can Grow Green Finance".
Our commitment to advancing sustainable finance
entered the realm of policy making when we were
appointed as one of the Members of the European
Commission’s (EC) High-Level Expert Group (HLEG)
on Sustainable Finance in 2016. The HLEG members,
which is comprised of 20 senior experts from civil
society, the finance sector, academia and observers
from European and international institutions,
were selected to embed sustainable finance in the
framework of the Capital Markets Union and across
the financial markets. In particular, the group was
mandated to provide advice to the EC on how to:
− Steer the flow of public and private capital towards
sustainable investments
− Identify the steps that financial institutions and
supervisors should take to protect the stability
of the financial system from risks related to the
environment
− Deploy these policies on a pan-European scale
The final report of HLEG, which was published in January
2018, provides an extensive range of recommendations,
including some specifically related to disclosure rules.
This was done with a view to making sustainability
risks fully transparent and part of the conversation with
financial players and investors everywhere.
Our commitment continued with our appointment
as a Member of the European Union (EU) Comissions’
Technical Expert Group on Sustainable Finance (TEG)
in 2018. The TEG was mandated to assist the EC in
developing implementation measures for the EC Action
Plan on Financing Sustainable Growth and its subsequent
package of legislative proposals, issued in May 2018.
As a key player in the development of sustainable
finance in the EU, we are a central pillar within the
Luxembourg financial sector in our work as board
member of the Luxembourg Bankers`Association (ABBL),
the Association of the Luxembourg Fund Industry (ALFI)
and a founding member of the Luxembourg Finance
Labelling Agency (LuxFlag). We work in close partnership
with the government in Luxembourg to ensure continued
support and sustainable growth in the capital markets.
In 2017, through in close collaboration with the government,
we played a key role in the creation of the National
Plan for Sustainable Development, the blueprint for
Luxembourg’s sustainable finance strategy culminating
in the development of the Luxembourg Sustainable
Finance Roadmap.
Luxembourg Stock Exchange | Guide to ESG Reporting 9
2 What is ESG and
why it is important?
10 Luxembourg Stock Exchange | Guide to ESG Reporting
In 2018, nine volunteers representing different levels and departments
of LuxSE were tasked with identifying the values that define LuxSE.
The result was the adoption of the following four core values:
Excellence, Transparency, Innovation and Commitment.
For the purpose of this Guide, the term ESG is seen as encompassing
the broad set of environmental, social and governance considerations
that play a role in an organisation’s ability to execute their business strategy,
track performance and create value. While ESG factors are at times referred
to as "non-financial" or "extra-financial", they are intrinsically material
to every business in different ways. In fact, their level of materiality depends
on many variables as they have a direct impact on the following criteria:
− Access to capital
− Cost savings and productivity
− Risk management
− Alignment to future markets
− Revenue growth and market access
− Brand value and reputation
− License to operate
− Human capital
− Employee retention and recruitment
− Company value as an acquisition target
− Ability to acquire other high-quality companies
In 2015, the United Nations (UN) adopted the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable
Development and its 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) 1
,
which constitute a clear map and timetable for action on the world’s most
pressing challenges. In order to thrive, businesses should have a vital interest
in ensuring that the SDGs are delivered. Assessing and disclosing how
businesses’ operations and value chains positively or negatively impact
the achievement of the SDGs can, among others, help businesses better
manage risks and opportunities and engage stakeholders. The SDGs are also
becoming increasingly important for investors, as they are "an articulation
of the world’s most pressing environmental, social and economic issues and,
as such, act as a definitive list of the material ESG perspectives that should
be taken into account" 2
.
1 Learn more about the SDG here: https://www.un.org/sustainabledevelopment/sustainable-development-goals/
2 See the "SDG Investment Case" https://www.unpri.org/download?ac=5909
Luxembourg Stock Exchange | Guide to ESG Reporting 11
5 000 000
4 000 000
3 000 000
2 000 000
1 000 000
0
2013 2015 2017
2 646 346
1 900 040
4 239 932
3 Why report on ESG?
3.1 Meeting investor interest in ESG factors
A large and growing proportion of assets
managed globally are with asset
managers and asset owners who are
incorporating ESG considerations
into the investment process. Proxies
of the growing interest in the field of
sustainable finance are the UN Principles
for Responsible Investment. This global
coalition of institutional investors has
now expanded to over 2000 signatories,
representing over USD $86 trillion
of assets under management (2019).
For all investors in the value chain,
ESG information provides insight into
the quality of management and the
environmental and social impact
of financed activities 3
. Access to ESG
information also helps them better
forecast performance, risks and
opportunities which is thanks to a more
comprehensive view of a company
or financial instrument. Effective analysis
of relevant ESG opportunities and risks
has become a fundamental part of
assessing the value of an investment
for many investors. Three in four investors
take these issues into account in their
investment analysis. This means that
today, most EU-based asset managers
use some form of ESG integration
in their portfolio with this strategy growing
by 123% in the past 4 years 4
. This is why
investors are asking companies, asset
managers and issuers of sustainable
financial instruments to communicate
on how they are managing ESG-related
opportunities and risks and integrate
them into their management decisions.
What is key for these investors is being
able to find transparent, comparable and
qualitative information on the companies
they want to invest in.
3 Principles for Responsible Investment
4 According to the Eurosif Study 2018, ESG integration totals over €4 trillion AuM, representing the third SRI strategy in terms of popularity.
ESG Integration growth over the last three surveyed years.
We noticed a 123% growth rate in this strategy,
but it remains difficult to decipher the level of the final impact
for the final investments.
12 Luxembourg Stock Exchange | Guide to ESG Reporting
Good business is about delivering value to customers
and shareholders, offering great careers to employees,
whilst ensuring you understand and appropriately
improve your wider environmental and social footprint.
You cannot do that in secret, you must share your
challenges, plans and performance with stakeholders
and be open to their feedback, be it positive or
challenging. That is what ESG reporting is all about;
knowing what to say, how to say it, and ensuring
the information is accessible. These guidelines brilliantly
help us navigate that complexity.
Alan Knight,
General Manager, Corporate Responsibility
Arcelor Mittal
Hermes is a founding member of the Principles
for Responsible Investment (PRI) where members
collectively represent US$86 trillion of assets under
management. Our foresight in the importance
of ESG and stewardship for investment is evident
through our early commitment to this journey.
13 years on, we believe that it is necessary but not
sufficient if companies consider ESG only from the risk
management perspective. We believe that companies
should have a business purpose that serves societal
good, with clear business objectives that are supportive
of the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).
These companies may have listed equities and/or
bonds. We commend the LuxSE’s dedication and efforts
in educating companies on these topics.
Through this guide and the referenced materials,
we expect companies to be well equipped for
constructive dialogue on the material ESG and SDG
issues with their investors. Together, our common goal
is to create long term value for stakeholders
of companies, the environment and the society.
Dr. Christine Chow,
Director of Engagement
Hermes Investment Management
Luxembourg Stock Exchange | Guide to ESG Reporting 13
3.2 Getting ahead of policy and regulatory developments
Governments around the world are responding
to demands 5
 for high-quality corporate reporting
on ESG information with the aim of improving disclosure.
According to the PRI Global Guide to Responsible
Investment regulation published in 2016, there are
39 international governments which mandate some
form of ESG disclosure for issuers 6
. In the EU, legislators
have started requiring large companies to disclose
information on the way they operate and manage social
and environmental challenges. This was also done
to help investors, consumers, policy-makers and other
stakeholders to take into account the non-financial
performance of large companies, while promoting
the development of a responsible business model.
Directive 2014/95/EU on the disclosure of non-financial
and diversity information (NFD) requires certain large
companies to disclose relevant non-financial information
in order to provide investors with more granular
information on their development, performance,
position and the impact of their activity. The targets
are large public-interest companies with more than
500 employees, which make up around 6000 large
companies and groups across the EU, spanning from
any listed companies, banks, insurance companies and
other enterprises designated as public-interest entities.
In 2017, the EC also produced a set of non-mandatory
guidelines to "help companies disclose environmental
and social information" 7
. As part of its Sustainable Finance
Action Plan, released in 2018, the EC set itself the target
to review the guidelines for company reporting
on climate-related information. For this reason,
in the first half of 2019, the EC launched a consultation
which proposed new ways to assess how climate
change can impact the financial performance
of companies as well as showing how companies
can have positive and negative impacts on the climate.
This step is a follow-up to the report issued by the TEG
on 10 January 2019, as part of its mandate to "develop
climate-related metrics in the context of its work on
an EU taxonomy allowing improving disclosure on climaterelated information and publish the outcome in a report 8
."
The increasing emphasis on reporting, accountability
and transparency goes hand-in-hand with the
EC Sustainable Finance Action Plan, which represents
the foundations of its vision of a sustainable Capital
Markets Union.
The Action Plan outlines the EC’s vision of reform
in three areas:
1 Reorienting capital flows towards sustainable
investment, in order to achieve sustainable
and inclusive growth
2 Incorporating sustainability into risk management
3 Fostering transparency and long-termism in financial
and economic activity
5
 See, for example, recommendation 3 in OICU-IOSCO’s final report on “Sustainable finance in emerging markets and the role of securities regulators”
6
 PRI (2016): Global Guide to Responsible Investment Regulation
7
 For details, please see https://ec.europa.eu/info/business-economy-euro/company-reporting-and-auditing/company-reporting/non-financial-reporting_en
8
 TEG on Sustainable Finance: report on climate-related disclosures https://ec.europa.eu/info/publications/190110-sustainable-finance-teg-report-climate-related-disclosures_en
14 Luxembourg Stock Exchange | Guide to ESG Reporting
Implementing any of these Action Plan points will
require stakeholders to review and act on ESG
information. It is foreseen that ESG information will
be relevant in relation to disclosure, benchmarking,
risk management and client advice, as well as being
required to be considered for corporate governance
decisions. Organisations who set themselves up early
to capture ESG information relevant to management
decisions will be in a good position to understand
forthcoming regulation ahead of others and take
advantage of the opportunities these represent. It will
also attract the interest of responsible and long-term
investors therefore putting these organisations in an
even stronger position. With respect to the proposed
EU regulation on disclosures relating to sustainable
investments and sustainability risks in particular 9
,
not only organisations but also financial market
participants shall have to specify in their policies how
they integrate sustainability risks. Where they do not
take into account the adverse impacts of investment
decisions on sustainability factors, they shall publish
clear information on why they do not, including where
appropriate, information whether and when they
intend to take these negative impacts into account.
This can relate to, for example, disclosure of corporate
governance information (in relation to remuneration
policies), sustainability risk management policies and
a description of the risks identified. Organisations
will find it helpful to consult this LuxSE Guide to ESG
Reporting to enable them to do so.
In addition to regulation on corporate reporting, policymakers are increasingly asking investors to improve
their engagement with investees and their integration
of ESG issues in their investment decisions. The graph
below represents policies put in place by the largest
50 economies in the world that cover either pension
fund regulation, stewardship codes or corporate
ESG disclosure requirements.
400
350
300
250
200
150
100
50
0
1946 1956 1966 1976 1986 1996 2006 2016
9 https://ec.europa.eu/info/law/better-regulation/initiatives/ares-2017-5524115_en#pe-2018-3336
Source: PRI Responsible Investment database
ESG information
will be relevant
in relation to
disclosure,
benchmarking,
risk management
and client advice
NUMBER OF POLICY INTERVENTIONS (counting individual revisions separatly)
Luxembourg Stock Exchange | Guide to ESG Reporting 15
3.3 Strengthening financial performance
A growing number of studies make a case for organisations
to fully integrate sustainability into their business strategy
and investment decisions. The evidence suggests that
wealth creation is not sacrificed in the process of adopting
environmentally and socially responsible policies,
and that strong performance on ESG factors correlates
positively with improved cost of capital and financial
performance. 10 A 2016 study suggests that organisations
that perform well on material ESG factors significantly
outperform peers with poor performance on the same
issues11. Reporting on how sustainability initiatives are
linked to strategy, financial performance and valuation
provides important benefits. Some organisations
measure sustainability impacts on future cash flows
and weighted average cost of capital. Integrating
sustainability into company valuation will assist
in communicating on how an organisation is addressing
the world’s most pressing challenges; from poverty
and education, to climate change and biodiversity.
Addressing these challenges promotes more prosperous
economic systems that benefit all participants and
create more stable and resilient markets.
3.4 LuxSE Guide to ESG Reporting
Mainstreaming ESG considerations into an organisation’s
procedures and decision-making is a transformative
exercise. New risks need to be identified and managed,
and new opportunities to be discovered. Until an
organisation is ready to embark on this journey,
it will need to take stock of its current procedures,
products and activities in order to identify how far ESG
considerations are presently addressed before being
in the position to define the shortcomings that it wishes
to ameliorate. Committing to ESG integration will result
in capturing new data, changing existing processes
and engaging with new stakeholders. This process will
differ from organisation to organisation and is, to a degree,
a highly individual exercise. However, there are key
parameters that certain groups of stakeholders can
expect to be confronted with.
For this Guide, we have identified three key group
users for whom developing consistent and
well-structured ESG reporting is most important:
1 Companies
2 Issuers of debt instruments
3 Asset managers
These three group users differ in their reporting
requirements and in their needs surrounding
ESG reporting. Nevertheless, their work in this area
contributes to the quality of each other’s output
and final goal. A company’s clear definition of an
ESG strategy and reporting will be appealing for
investors who intend to select for their portfolios,
companies who are able to report on these criteria
and who manage to demonstrate their added value
in this respect. Issuers of debt instruments, such as green,
social and sustainability bonds have to commit
to some degree of reporting in order to adhere
to standard market practice12. For sustainable (ESG)
funds, asset managers mostly choose to report how
they take ESG criteria into account in their governance
and fund management, in order to align with market
expectations. The LuxSE requires ESG disclosure from
companies that are listed on the regulated market,
while LGX requires the reporting associated to displayed
sustainable financial instruments. Investors can access
this ESG database via our LGX platform, the one-stopshop for sustainability documentation.
This LuxSE Guide to ESG Reporting therefore contains
the following sections:
» Section 4 which outlines how companies should
report on ESG
» Section 5 which outlines how and on what issuers
of sustainable financial debt should consider to report
» Section 6 which provides information on ESG reporting
for asset managers.
10 Eccles, R. G., Ioannou I., Serafeim, G. 2014. "The Impact of Corporate Sustainability on Organizational Processes and Performance". Management Science, Vol. 60, No. 11, pp. 2835–2857.
11 Khan, M., Serafeim, G., Yoon, A. 2016. "Corporate Sustainability: First Evidence on Materiality". The Accounting Review, Vol. 91, No. 6, pp. 1697-1724.
16 Luxembourg Stock Exchange | Guide to ESG Reporting
Luxembourg Stock Exchange | Guide to ESG Reporting 17
4 Companies
How to report on ESG
18 Luxembourg Stock Exchange | Guide to ESG Reporting
There are nine key points that companies should
address when preparing an ESG report:
Defining roles for the 1 preparation of the report
5
3
7
2
6
4
8
9
Identifying and understanding
the audience
Collecting data for the report
Aligning the report with
the corporate strategy
Identifying the themes
and defining a materiality matrix
Identifying the format
and communication channels
Engaging stakeholders
Assessing the relevance
of the performance indicators
Considering internal audit
and external assurance
Luxembourg Stock Exchange | Guide to ESG Reporting 19
4.1 Assigning roles for the preparation of the report
The initial stages of report preparation provide
the opportunity to determine who within the company
is best placed to be involved in creating the report.
As a practical first step, it is useful to determine the
roles, responsibilities and capabilities within a company
that are relevant to ESG reporting. This includes
identifying appropriate persons and defining how
they coordinate their work. Senior management
can take the lead by demonstrating commitment
to high-quality reporting and providing strategic input
into – the overseeing of – the process. Other managers
within the organisation may also play a leading role.
Countless companies began reporting from the bottom
up and evolved toward full buy-in at the highest
level. Different departments such as finance, investor
relations, communications, legal and sustainability
need to be involved to ensure their vision and input
is integrated into the report. Any team working on ESG
reporting should have access to input from across the
functional divisions of a company, as different functions
within the company may be engaging with different
stakeholders and managing varying material issues.
A company’s board of directors will also play an
essential role in the integration and oversight of this
report. As the board of directors holds the responsibility
for oversight of the strategic direction of a company,
integrating ESG considerations into the company’s
strategy should fall under its role. It is therefore
worthwhile for companies to define their ESG rationale
and objectives with their board of directors. This would
provide governance mechanisms for addressing ESG
factors at all levels of the organisation. By embedding
ESG into their core duties, directors can position
themselves in order to ensure the mainstreaming of ESG
factors into business strategy, organisational culture and
operational practices in a way that supports the long-term
profitability and viability of the company.
Boards may find it beneficial to issue
a statement setting out:
» The role of different stakeholders
» The ESG factors selected and how they were selected
» How the board and/or board committees (e.g., audit,
risk, or other committees) are informed about
ESG-related issues
» How these issues are embedded in the organisation’s
strategy, including risk management policies,
budgeting, etc.
» The time frame for these judgments, as they might
change over time
» How the board reviews progress against goals
and targets13
Developing such a statement is also an opportunity
for the board to reflect on the company’s role in society
and its contribution to sustainable development. It can
provide transparency regarding the board’s position on,
and oversight of, the company’s ESG opportunities
and risks. It also strengthens the company’s credibility
when communicating on ESG factors.
The board members’ commitment to reporting on ESG
factors lends credibility to a company’s claims about
its ESG engagement and performance. It indicates
that opportunities and risks are adequately dealt with
at the highest level, and is therefore a proxy for overall
good governance. In order to evaluate the quality
of management, many investors examine not only
ESG performance and the quality of disclosures,
but also the governance or management of these
issues by executive teams.
13 WFE. 2018. WFE ESG Guidance and Metrics.
20 Luxembourg Stock Exchange | Guide to ESG Reporting
4.2 Aligning the report with corporate strategy
High-quality corporate reporting can help a company
address various goals related to internal and
external stakeholders and impact decision-making;
particularly the decision-making process of investors.
While reporting provides information that is useful
for stakeholders’ decision-making, the process
of compiling this information can also strengthen
internal reporting systems, which are beneficial to the
management of a company. As such, there is a need
for clear links between strategic goals, the business
model, risks, opportunities, operational indicators
and financial performance. With strong connections
between each of these areas, a company’s ability
to identify and manage risks, evaluate and measure
success, as well as identify future challenges and
opportunities will be improved.
Moreover, research published in 2017 suggests
that information presented in ESG reports should
correspond to the information used by managers
to make business decisions in order to be better
perceived by those outside of the company14.
Based on the recommendations of the Task Force
on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD),
issuers should show the possible impact of selected
ESG issues on:
» Products and services
» Supply chain and/or value chain
» Investment in research and development
» Operations (including types of operations
and location of facilities)
13 WFE. 2018. WFE ESG Guidance and Metrics.
14 Bradford, M., Earp, J. B., Williams, P. F. 2017. "Understanding sustainability for socially responsible investing and reporting". Journal of Capital Markets Studies, Vol. 1, No. 1, pp.10-35.
15 Callan. 2018. 2018 ESG Survey.
According to a KPMG Survey of Corporate
Responsibility Reporting, 78% of the world’s
largest companies now integrate financial and
sustainability data into their annual financial
reports which suggests that they believe ESG
information is relevant for investors. In addition,
Callan’s 2018 ESG survey has found that 72%
of large funds have incorporated ESG factors
into their investment decisions15.
78%
Luxembourg Stock Exchange | Guide to ESG Reporting 21
4.3 Engaging stakeholders
Active engagement of stakeholders on ESG factors is
a clear indicator of good practice towards any relevant
risk management and mitigation activity. Stakeholder
engagement can also be a source of innovation,
future opportunities and new partnerships that fuel
strategic growth. Disclosing a company’s engagement
process can help investors understand if and how
well a company is integrating ESG opportunities
and risks into planning and operations, as well as lend
credibility to company’s claims about leadership
in ESG performance.
Systematic stakeholder engagement enhances
receptivity and the usefulness of corporate ESG
information. When executed correctly, stakeholder
engagement is likely to result in improved
understanding of a company’s strategic partners and
resources, stronger relationships with stakeholders and
the fostering of higher levels of trust among external
parties regarding the company’s actions and reporting.
Understanding the needs of the stakeholders is key in
the definition of the materiality matrix which will serve
as the basis for the ESG report.
4.4 Identifying and understanding the audience
As investors are a key audience for ESG disclosures,
companies should make sure they provide information
that is relevant to their decision-making. While all can
benefit from ESG information, different investors might
have different needs when it comes to this information.
To address expectations correctly, companies might
ask themselves the following questions:
» Who are the company’s top investors?
» What kind of investors would the company like to have?
» How has the company engaged with relevant
investors to find out what they are interested in?
For instance, investors with a long-term investment
horizon, such as pension funds, may be particularly
interested in information regarding risks that may
include how climate change may affect the company
in the medium- or long-term.
It is important to address these considerations early
in the reporting process as they will help to define
the content, scope and format of the report, as well as
engagement efforts. Investors are also interested in how
a company communicates with other key stakeholders
who can have a material impact on company
operations (e.g. employees, consumers, civil society,
governments). Investors recognise that a company’s
ability to create value in the long-term depends on its
interactions with its stakeholders and use of resources.
22 Luxembourg Stock Exchange | Guide to ESG Reporting
100%
80%
60%
40%
20%
0%
Tangible
Assets
Intangible
Assets
83%
17%
68%
32%
32%
68%
20%
1975 1985 1995 2005
80%
16%
2015
84%
4.5 Identifying the themes and defining a materiality matrix
An effective report covers ESG considerations that are
relevant to the business strategy and illustrates the
link to both long-term and short-term value creation.
Thinking through each piece of a company’s value chain
can help develop a comprehensive understanding
of the ESG themes that may be relevant for disclosure.
Additionally, it is often helpful to reflect on the risks
discussed in the company’s annual management reports,
as well as themes reported by peers. Companies can
also use a variety of national and international resources
to develop an initial list of ESG themes, whether these
themes are generic or sector-specific. For example,
a company can use the UN Global Compact’s 10 Principles
and its Basic Guide for reporting on environmental, labour,
human rights and anti-corruption issues16.
The increase in the valuation of ESG criteria has developed
in parallel with the general increase in intangible asset
evaluation. An S&P 500 evaluation in 2015 found their total
value was at 84%, registering a staggering 52% growth
since 198517.
Companies may also benefit from further exploration
of intangible assets. One of the leading intangibles
for many firms is human capital. Good ESG practices
are recognised as key drivers of employee attraction,
motivation and retention18. Another example of an
intangible asset is brand image. Again, good ESG
practices influence consumers’ interest in products
and services and enhances the company’s legitimacy
in the eyes of governments and local communities.
Another relevant element of company value is tied
to "natural capital", which relates to the raw material
inputs and others provided by, or depending on,
environmental processes. Companies are being
increasingly challenged by risks such as resource
depletion, species loss and climate change impacts.
As a result, better management of natural capital
is believed to have an impact on companies’ bottom
lines and long-term viability.
The materiality of information and its relevance to the
users of the report is a key consideration in determining
the scope and content of the company’s report.
With a wide range of potential ESG opportunities
and risks, the accounting and legal construct of
materiality is increasingly used to identify and prioritise
the matters covered in the report. The International
Accounting Standards Board (IASB) defines information
as "material" if its omission or misstatement could
influence the users’ economic decisions taken based
on the financial statements.
16 Similarly, for businesses looking to identify relevant SDG targets to report on, the UN Global Compact, GRI and PRI report "In Focus: Addressing Investor Needs in Business
Reporting on the SDGs" source: https://www.unglobalcompact.org/library/5625
17 Ocean Tomo (2015): Annual Study of Intangible Asset Market Value
18 Deloitte. 2018. 2018 Deloitte Millennial Survey
COMPONENTS OF S&P 500 MARKET VALUE
Luxembourg Stock Exchange | Guide to ESG Reporting 23
Different organisations (Sustainability Accounting
Standards Board (SASB), Global Reporting Initiative (GRI),
International Integrated Reporting Framework (IIRR))
have different interpretations and recommendations
on how the concept of materiality could be applied
to reporting on ESG considerations. Likewise, different
stakeholder groups have differing views on which ESG
factors are material for a company. The interpretations
of materiality differ most in terms of the topics that are
considered relevant.
Identifying relevant issues is a starting point for identifying
material factors. Information is "relevant" when it
influences the opinion or decision of users by helping
them to evaluate past, present or future events, or by
confirming or correcting their past evaluations. As such,
understanding the reporting audience is critical when
determining what information should be included in a
report. It can be useful to gauge how much an issue may
affect the company’s ability to create value over time.
In addition to material ESG information, a company
may decide to report on other elements that do not
meet the threshold for materiality, but could be relevant
to the company’s operational and/or reputational
performance. For example, a company’s perspective
on what is material to investors may differ from what
is significant to society. Therefore, one company may
decide to report only on material information, whereas
another may report on all the information it deems
significant to its stakeholders. As investors increasingly
understand how business-critical operations are
being affected by a variety of ESG factors, the range of
information considered relevant and material by existing
definitions is widening. Whether companies decide
to apply a strict interpretation of materiality when
considering which ESG information to report, or they
take a wider view, they should clearly articulate how the
concept of materiality has been applied.
4.6 Assessing the relevance of performance indicators
Once a company has established which ESG themes to
report on, it can begin to disclose specific performance
indicators to demonstrate progress. These indicators
may be generic, industry-specific or company-specific.
It is recommended that companies use widely
accepted indicators developed via a credible process.
The GRI, for example, produces the most widely used
set of indicators for corporate sustainability reporting
with detailed guidance on their application. Another
useful resource is the TCFD Implementation Guide19
which was designed to foster improved reporting of
climate-related information. This Implementation Guide
aims to help companies to enhance the robustness,
consistency and utility of their climate disclosures by
applying the disclosure guidance offered by the SASB
and Climate Disclosure Standards Board (CDSB).
This application of the TCFD, SASB and CDSB standards
should help companies to craft disclosures in harmony
with the TCFD’s principles-based framework and the
disclosure principles offered by the SASB and CDSB.
When reporting on these indicators, investors
appreciate information that appears in the appropriate
context, including comparisons to:
» Historical company and industry trends
» Related corporate goals
» Relevant ratios
» Industry averages
» Financial results/performance
As investors seek to understand how ESG information is
linked to the company’s business strategy and financial
performance, quantitative data is in high demand.
This data allows for comparisons to be made over
different time periods within the firm or with similar
data from other companies. Such data is also useful for
enhancing investment valuation and credit rating models.
To effectively use indicators, companies can:
» Consult nationally or internationally recognised
reporting guidelines and protocols for measuring
in order to prepare and present ESG metrics and
to improve the quality of a company’s disclosure.
» Explain why indicators increased or decreased
year-to-year, the company’s perception of this
and how this might change in the future.
» Explain methodologies for data collection in the
report, along with reasons why they were used.
» Supplement qualitative narratives with quantitative
data, benchmarks and targets (or vice versa).
» Explain the link between ESG metrics and financial
performance by demonstrating how ESG initiatives
drive growth, productivity and risk management in
monetary terms, where possible.
» Report on challenges and mistakes as well as
accomplishments. Moreover, in many jurisdictions,
information on regulatory infractions or penalties is
readily available. If stakeholders have access to this
information and do not see it in corporate reporting,
it diminishes the credibility of the corporate report.
Investors understand that no company has a perfect
record on every issue; an honest discussion builds
rapport with shareholders and other stakeholders and
often wards against more aggressive engagement.
19 Published by the Climate Disclosure Standards Board and the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board.
24 Luxembourg Stock Exchange | Guide to ESG Reporting
4.7 Collecting data for the report
Better data leads to better decision-making and performance. First, it is useful to assess the capabilities of existing
internal systems in order to collect concise, reliable and complete ESG data. Rather than creating completely new
channels, companies can make use of existing internal audit, risk and data control verification systems. If internal
systems are not currently sufficient for the task, a company may decide it is in its long-term interest to invest
in building better capacity in this area. If data collection gaps are identified, companies can highlight and explain
them in their reports.
Luxembourg Stock Exchange | Guide to ESG Reporting 25
4.8 Identifying the format and communication channels
The right disclosure channels ensure that investors
receive relevant, easily accessible, comparable
and timely information. Companies should be familiar
with their target audiences’ preferred ESG information
sources and update them with timely and accurate
news regarding their performance.
To accommodate diverse information needs and
interests, companies can use different communication
channels, including websites, regulatory filings, annual
reports, sustainability reports and other company reports.
Using more than one communication channel can be an
effective way to ensure that the entirety of a company’s
target audience receives the necessary information.
To make the information more accessible to international
investors, companies may also wish to disseminate their
ESG information in a language widely spoken throughout
the world in addition to a national language.
The channels for ESG disclosure also depend on
a company’s regulatory context as well as its business
and communication strategy. Securities regulations
and/or listing rules may require a company to integrate
financially material ESG information into its financial
disclosures and other mandatory investor communications
and regulatory filings. Similarly, given a company’s
own analysis of information needs and expectations,
it may decide to include certain ESG information
in the company’s financial disclosure even if not required.
Regardless of the format, there are a few overarching
practices to keep in mind:
» If sustainability disclosure is separate from financial
disclosure, it is recommended that both types
of disclosure cover the same reporting period.
This will allow investors to consider financial
information within the context of ESG information.
Cross-references within these documents ensure
connectivity and accessibility of information.
» It is important to ensure consistency among the
different communication channels. For example,
a company should use one channel to emphasise
the critical nature of an issue to its business
and then fail to discuss that issue on another
communication channel.
» The information has to be easy to find therefore
a company may produce an online content index
with hyperlinks to boost digital accessibility and
indicate where to find existing ESG information.
» Overall, reporting is most effective when the language
used, and the way the information is presented,
is clear and relevant to investors and connects
to a company’s ability to create value in the short-,
medium- and long-term.
» Principle 9 of the "Ten Principles of Corporate
Governance" of the LuxSE requires that the concerned
companies present CSR information in a dedicated
report or within their management report either
in a specific section or in an appendix relating
to sustainable development.
STAND-ALONE
SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING
FINANCIAL REPORTING WITH
MATERIAL ESG FACTORS
INTEGRATED
REPORTING
Sustainability reports address the
relevant ESG information needs
of investors and sometimes other
stakeholders, such as consumers
and the civil society.
After a company decides that
certain ESG factors are material
to its business over a specific length
of time, it may decide to include
this information in its financial
reports. These will likely cover
a smaller set of ESG factors than
the other options listed.
An integrated report is a concise
communication on how an
organisation’s strategy, governance,
performance and prospects, in the
context of its external environment,
lead to the creation of value over
the short-, medium- and long-term.
Illustrated below are three examples of communication channels a company
may consider. Note that these are not mutually exclusive. As mentioned above,
many companies pursue a collection of complementary reporting channels
and the processes to create one can feed into another.
26 Luxembourg Stock Exchange | Guide to ESG Reporting
Public
News
Oicially
Appointed
Mechanism
Regulatory
Authority
ESG reports publication and dissemination via FIRST
At LuxSE we are committed to promoting and integrating
ESG/sustainability matters across our business lines
which include listing, trading and information services.
In order to motivate companies to publish their ESG/
sustainability reports, we have developed a dedicated
feature for the Financial News Service (FNS) within
our Financial Instruments Reporting Services Tool (FIRST).
Issuers are now able to publish their reports on our website,
link them to their issuer cards and simultaneously
distribute them to data vendors and media.
This new feature allows companies to reach a wider
audience and be discovered by ESG focused investors
while keeping ahead of regulations on the disclosure
of non-financial information.
FIRST has been developed to allow organisations
to fully comply with reporting requirements. This is done
by providing a simple solution to publishing regulated
information and disseminating other announcements,
making information available for storage in the Officially
Appointed Mechanism (OAM) and filing regulated
information with the competent authorities. It is thereby
a single portal for publishing, disseminating and filing
information and allows for the fast and easy completion
of report publication. Further information on how to use
FIRST can be found on: www.bourse.lu/first.
4.9 Considering internal audit and external assurance
ESG reports are made more credible through strong
internal assessment processes and/or external
assurance, if resources permit. An internal audit
committee or group of individuals, independent
of the division tasked with measuring and gathering
the information, can review the disclosure as well as
the internal process and procedures. An internal audit
can also ensure that internal data collection systems
are robust and organised.
Interest in externally assured ESG disclosure, along
with the development of accompanying assurance
standards, has been driven by investor requests
to bring ESG information up to financial grade reporting.
External assurance can lend an added degree of trust,
credibility and recognition, in the same way that financial
auditing does. Accounting, engineering and specialist
service firms are the most common third-party
assurance providers. In order to decide the type
and level of assurance desired, companies should
consider recommended standards for assurance
within their sector, as well as stakeholder expectations.
As a resource in addition to this chapter, Appendix A
includes a set of helpful questions that companies
can use to guide their ESG report preparation.
20 As required for issuers whose transferable securities are traded on a regulated market and are within the remit of the Luxembourg competent authority, the Commission
de Surveillance du Secteur Financier (CSSF).
Luxembourg Stock Exchange | Guide to ESG Reporting 27
5 Issuers of sustainable
debt instruments
28 Luxembourg Stock Exchange | Guide to ESG Reporting
The EC has estimated the size of the efforts needed to decarbonise the
European economy and meet the objectives of the Paris Agreement on climate
change to be at 180bn euros of additional investment every year until 203021.
There is a strong need for the private sector to be mobilised and play an active
role in the climate economy. In relation to the huge challenge and opportunity
this financing need represents for the debt market, various stakeholders
of the financial markets increasingly require issuers of sustainable financial
instruments to be transparent regarding their activities in order to allow
investors to track the ESG progress and impact of their investments.
For this reason, reports that, for example, detail the bond proceeds allocated
to ESG assets and activities and the relating environmental impact achieved,
are a fundamental resource for financial decision-makers. Such information
allows these decision-makers to track the use of their investments and,
in cases, their investments’ environmental performance. It is therefore
important that issuers of green, social and sustainable debt instruments
prepare these documents and make them available to investors and the public
so that they can make decisions on this basis.
This section will provide guidance on how to establish relevant ESG reporting
and what to report on, so that issuers of debt instruments can successfully
take advantage of the opportunities presented by the green, social and
sustainable debt market.
The below guide focuses on advising bond issuers on the ESG reporting
framework for green, social and sustainability bonds. For guidance
on an issuer’s company-level ESG reporting, please consult Section 4.1.
There are six key topics to be taken into account for effective ESG reporting:
1 Identifying and defining ESG activities and strategies
2 Defining ESG procedures and disclosing information pre-issuance
3 Evaluating relevant reporting categories and performance indicators
4 Taking stock of internal data processes and collecting data
5 Deciding on the best format and reporting period for publication
6 Considering external assurance
21 EC (2018): EU Climate Action: https://ec.europa.eu/clima/citizens/eu_en
Luxembourg Stock Exchange | Guide to ESG Reporting 29
5.1 Identifying and defining ESG activities and strategies
Before reporting on their ESG activities, issuers of
sustainable financial products need to identify or
define which of their activities can be classified as
being, or supporting, an ESG activity. For bonds, this
usually involves identifying which of the use of proceeds
can be classified as contributing to ESG outcomes.
Prospective green, social or sustainability bond issuers
(henceforth referred to as "issuers"), typically already
engage in activities which are subsequently identified
as ESG-eligible. Such stakeholders can use established
market standards, such as the ICMA Green and Social
Bond Principles and Sustainability Bond Guidelines 22 as
guides to establish whether or not their activities can
be seen as eligible to receive the proceeds of a green,
social or sustainability bond. If the bond will be of a social
nature, the issuer will need to define the population that is
being targeted to receive the social benefits of this bond.
In addition, if the activities can be seen as
contributing to the mitigation of climate change (such
as investments in renewable energy, energy efficiency
or clean transportation), the issuers can utilise the
CBI Climate Bond Standard (CBI CBS) or the EU
taxonomy to further guide their assessment of whether
or not their activities align with the general market
definition of "green". These documents contain more
detailed sector criteria as to what constitute green
activities (in cases on the basis of quantitative
metrics), in particular helping organisations that have
access to relevant activity data to identify which of
their activities can be classified as eligible to receive
the proceeds of green bonds 23 24.
GREEN ELIGIBLE
ACTIVITIES
SOCIAL ELIGIBLE
ACTIVITIES
SOCIAL TARGET
POPULATION
Renewable energy Affordable basic infrastructure Living below the poverty line
Energy efficiency Access to essential
services
Excluded and/or
marginalised populations
Pollution prevention
and control
Affordable housing Vulnerable groups
Sustainable Management of living
natural resources and land use
Employment generation People with disabilities
Biodiversity conservation Food security Migrants and/or displaced
persons
Clean transportation Socioeconomic advancement and
empowerment
Undereducated persons
Sustainable water
and wastewater management
Underserved persons
Climate change adaptation Unemployed persons
Eco-efficient and/or circular
economy adapted products,
production and processes
Green buildings
The following use of proceeds categories are outlined in the Green Bond Principles
and the Social Bond Principles (as reflected in the Sustainability Bond Guidelines):
22 Green Bond Principles (2018), Social Bond Principles (2018), Sustainability Bond Guidelines (2018)
23 Climate Bond Initiative: Climate Bond Standard https://www.climatebonds.net/standard/sector-criteria
24 EU Technical Expert Group Technical Report on the EU taxonomy
30 Luxembourg Stock Exchange | Guide to ESG Reporting
5.2 Defining ESG procedures and disclosing
information pre-issuance
To align with standard market practice, issuers of
sustainable financial products should prepare and
make available to investors, or the general public,
documentation that details the characteristics of the
sustainable financial instrument(s) and the procedures
employed by the organisation to manage them.
For issuers of bonds, this typically takes the form
of a "framework" document, explaining the following
approaches the organisation is taking:
» Use of proceeds: The issuer will explain which
activities and/or projects the proceeds of the green,
social or sustainability will finance. These are laid
out to correspond to the eligible activity categories
identified in step 5.1.
» Process for project evaluation and selection:
This section outlines the procedures and bodies
present in the organisational structure that will
allow the issuer to identify whether or not an activity
can be classified as one of the activities eligible to
receive the green, social or sustainability proceeds.
» Management of proceeds: This section details how
the issuer plans to manage the proceeds internally.
Typical examples include placing the green, social
or sustainability proceeds into a segregated account
before allocation, or associating an electronic tag
to the relevant proceeds via the issuer’s accounting
system to track the proceeds.
» Commitment to ongoing reporting: This section
includes an explicit statement of commitment
that the issuer will report on the green, social
or sustainability bond on a typically annual
and ongoing basis until a specified point in time
(either full allocation of proceeds or maturity).
25 LGX analysis on green bond reporting practices (2018)
26 The commissioning of an external review of the green bond framework and allocation report by an "accredited" party will also be mandatory as per the proposed EU Green Bond Standard.
27 ICMA’s Guidelines for Green, Social and Sustainability Bonds External Reviews (2018): https://www.icmagroup.org/green-social-and-sustainability-bonds/external-reviews/
85%
In addition, 85% of the European
green bond market 25 commission
an external party to provide
assurance that the above
approaches are aligned with
standard market practice
(this majority is reflected in other
markets as well) 26. Most frequently,
such assurance is given in the
form of "second opinions", where
alignment with market standards
is assessed. These are typically
disclosed by the issuer ahead
of issuing a green, social or
sustainability bond in order to
provide investors with third party
assurance that general market
practice has been followed. Other
forms of external reviews include
ratings, certifications and external
verification which are explained
in more detail in ICMA’s Guidelines
for Green, Social and Sustainability
Bonds External Reviews (2018) 27.
Luxembourg Stock Exchange | Guide to ESG Reporting 31
5.3 Evaluating relevant reporting categories
and performance indicators
Once ESG activities or investment strategies have
been identified, issuers of sustainable financial
instruments can identify the types of information
that are descriptive of their ESG activities and,
in turn, useful for investors to receive reports on.
At a minimum, investors are interested in the use of
their ESG-oriented investment. Issuers of sustainable
financial instruments must, therefore, at the very least,
be transparent regarding the amount of proceeds
or portfolio investments that have been allocated
to finance ESG-relevant activities or are invested in line
with an ESG-oriented strategy identified in step 5.2.
For green, social or sustainability bond issuers,
this relates to indicating the amount of proceeds
allocated to each eligible sector or each activity
or projects within an eligible sector.
Issuers of green, social and sustainability bonds can,
in addition, provide additional information that
describes the outcome of the activities financed.
They may consider reporting on the following to describe
their activities:
» Projects: Detailed descriptions of the type of
assets or project(s) where the proceeds have been
allocated to. For example, providing a consolidated
list containing all the relevant projects with common
financial indicators.
» Impact: Quantitative information describing the
environmental positive and/or negative impact of
the activities financed by the proceeds. This can
include, for example, indicators that represent
an absolute figure, or a figure that represents
incremental change between a previous baseline
and the current situation (indicating a change over
time). This information can also be supplemented
by qualitative information that describes the
environmental impact of these activities.
Indicators most commonly chosen to report on
impact describe energy use or reduction, as well
as greenhouse gas emissions and reduction
» Re-financing: In cases where the proceeds are
to be used to re-finance activities, this indicates
the share of the overall green or social activities
dedicated to re-financing.
» Co-financing: In cases where the proceeds
are allocated to projects where the issuer is
a co-financier, this indicates the total share
of the project that has been co-financed.
» Type of expenditure: This information would indicate
the type of expense the proceeds of the bond have
been allocated to cover. For example, this can either
be capital expenditure or operational expenditure.
The issuer may also consider indicating whether the
expenditures cover tangible or intangible assets.
» Methodology: Any methodological notes that clarify
how any of the information contained in the report
has been compiled.
Appendix D of this Guide includes a template that green,
social and sustainability bond issuers can use to report
on their use of proceeds and the impact of their activities.
32 Luxembourg Stock Exchange | Guide to ESG Reporting
5.4 Taking stock of internal data processes and collecting data
Issuers of sustainable financial instruments need to assess
whether or not information identified as useful for
investors (in line with step 5.2) is available for reporting.
Internal data systems may already capture the required
information directly or may capture information from
which the required data can be constructed.
For example, an issuer of a green bond that provides
energy efficient mortgages can utilise energy
performance documentation on the relevant buildings
financed (as already available to the issuer) to derive
data on estimated energy reductions achieved.
By applying standards such as the GreenhouseGas Protocol 28, the issuer can then use this energy
reductions data to estimate the greenhouse-gas
reductions achieved. The issuer then has relevant
impact information which can be disseminated to
investors. Green bond issuers who do not have any
environmental impact information available should
consider capturing data on energy reductions achieved
through their activities in the first instance, as such data
is generally available to be captured and can easily
be used to derive data on greenhouse gas reductions.
To define the impact of social activities, issuers of
social bonds should firstly focus on capturing data on
the number of people within the issuer-defined target
population that have gained access to the relevant
social service whether this is in the form of affordable
housing, healthcare or education.
5.5 Deciding on the best format and reporting period
for publication
It is general market practice for issuers of sustainable
financial instruments to publish their report to investors
at least on an annual basis (starting the year following
the year of the issuance of the sustainable debt product).
The majority of sustainability market players choose to
disclose ESG information on their sustainable financial
products in dedicated reports, rather than publishing
it as part of their wider-scope reporting which may
include annual, financial or sustainability reports.
The former approach allows for a greater degree of
flexibility and clarity, whereas the latter approach may
be more efficient for some organisations. Issuers of
sustainable financial products will need to assess their
existing reporting cycle and publications in order
to identify whether or not information on sustainable
financial products is best reported as part of,
or separate to, existing reporting structures.
From an investor’s perspective, dedicated green, social
or sustainability bond reports are preferable, as the
relevant bond-specific information is easier to retrieve
on its own rather than being bundled within a document
containing other, non-bond related information.
Issuers of sustainable financial products may also
consider reporting information to investors directly
on webpages that are dedicated to their sustainable
financial products.
5.6 Considering external assurance
It is best practice for issuers of sustainable financial
products to seek an external verification of their
ESG reporting (audit report). However, based on LGX
analysis of European green bond issuers (issued up
to June 2018), only 22% of all issuers currently seek
such verification. Managers and issuers of sustainable
financial instruments can differentiate themselves
from the majority of other players by disclosing such
an audit report and demonstrating transparency
as well as robustness to investors.
28 Greenhouse Gas Protocol: https://ghgprotocol.org/standards
Luxembourg Stock Exchange | Guide to ESG Reporting 33
6 Asset managers
How to report on ESG
34 Luxembourg Stock Exchange | Guide to ESG Reporting
Asset managers, both mainstream and those who have a specific focus
on Sustainable and Responsible Investing (SRI), have a keen interest
in demonstrating that their process and approach meet specific reporting
parameters which are strictly linked to ESG reporting criteria. They can be
transparent on the methodological approach followed in their investment
strategy, implementation of governance and measure of reporting
in place. Today, most asset managers have several options before them
to demonstrate the transparency and accountability of their SRI funds,
these are typically SRI product labels which are available throughout Europe.
Such SRI labels have started making their appearances in Europe over
20 years ago, in combination with the launch of the first sustainable
investment funds. Prior to the set-up of most of those labels, Eurosif
(a European association for the promotion of sustainable and responsible
investment) defined their Transparency Guidelines in 2004. These guidelines
later became the basis for a transparency framework29 which most SRI
funds today use to detail how they make use of ESG indicators in their fund
management approach. This framework of reporting constitutes the basis
for most SRI labels used today. It is a prerequisite to obtaining recognition
of a fund’s SRI identity in France and Belgium30. Asset managers’ use of
the Transparency Code and/or of SRI labels would be essentially for the
promotion of the quality of their products with both retail and institutional
investors. Appropriate reporting on ESG strategies and frameworks grants
asset managers the possibility to attract longer-term investors who seek
specific ESG requirements for their investment criteria. Regardless of the fact
that asset managers will choose one reporting approach over another,
it is useful to keep in mind some specific reporting parameters which can help
construct an effective SRI framework focused on ESG reporting.
There are six key topics to be taken into account for effective ESG reporting:
1 Identifying and defining ESG activities and strategies
2 Defining ESG procedures and disclosing information
3 Evaluating relevant reporting categories and performance indicators
4 Taking stock of internal data processes and collecting data
5 Deciding on the best format and reporting period for publication
6 Considering external assurance
29 Eurosif Transparency Code: www.eurosif.org
30 Having been embedded by the asset management funds associations in the respective countries
Luxembourg Stock Exchange | Guide to ESG Reporting 35
6.1 Identifying and defining ESG activities and strategies
Asset managers can utilise different principles in order to define their responsible investment approaches. The principles
that will make most sense for an asset manager depend on their investment strategy and portfolio composition.
The below outlines a non-exhaustive list of selected strategies, as stated in the Eurosif Transparency Code31:
» Best-in-class: An approach where leading or
best-performing investments within a universe,
category or class are selected or weighted based
on ESG criteria. This approach involves the selection
or weighting of the best-performing or improved
companies or assets as identified by ESG analysis
within a defined investment universe. Typically,
the ESG analysis data is procured from specialised
data providers 32.
» Engagement and voting: This approach involves
engagement activities and active ownership through
voting of shares and engagement with companies
on ESG matters. This is a long-term process, seeking
to influence the behaviour of management or
increase their disclosure of data. Engagement and
voting on corporate governance only is necessary,
but not sufficient enough to be counted in this
strategy.
» Exclusions: This is an approach that excludes
specific investments or classes of investment from
the investible universe, such as companies, sectors,
or countries on the basis of specific criteria. Common
categories include weapons, pornography, tobacco
and animal testing. Exclusions can be applied at
individual fund or mandate level, but increasingly
also at asset manager or asset owner level, across
the entire product range of assets. This approach is
also referred to as ethical- or value-based exclusions,
as exclusion criteria are typically based on the choices
made by asset managers or asset owners.
» Sustainability-themed: This approach involves
investment in themes or assets linked to the
development of sustainability. Thematic funds
focus on specific or multiple issues related to ESG.
Sustainability-themed investments inherently
contribute to addressing social and/or environmental
challenges such as climate change, eco-efficiency
and health. Funds are required to have an ESG
analysis or screen of investments in order to be
counted in this approach, which can be performed
by specialised ESG label providers, for example.
» Norms-based screening: The screening of
investments according to their compliance with
international standards and norms, or combinations
of ESG norms, is one of the most commonly
employed approaches. International norms on ESG
are those defined by international bodies such
as the United Nations (UN). Examples of such norms
include the UN Principles for Responsible Investment
(UN PRI) and the UN Global Compact.
» Impact investing: These are investments made into
companies, organisations and funds with the intention of
generating social and environmental impact alongside a
financial return. Impact investments can be made in both
emerging and developed markets and target a range of
returns from below market-to-market rate, depending
upon the circumstances. Investments are often projectspecific and distinct from philanthropy, as the investor
retains ownership of the asset and expects a positive
financial return. Impact investing includes microfinance,
community investing, social business/entrepreneurship
funds and the French "fonds solidaires".
» ESG integration: This approach involves the explicit
inclusion by asset managers of ESG risks and
opportunities in traditional financial analysis and
investment decisions based on a systematic process
and appropriate research sources. This type of strategy
covers explicit consideration of ESG factors alongside
financial factors in the mainstream analysis
of investments. The integration process focuses
on the potential positive and/or negative impact
of ESG issues on company financials,
which in turn may affect the investment decision.
M Environmental issues concern any aspect of a
company’s activity that affects the environment
in a positive or negative manner. Examples
include greenhouse gas emissions, renewable
energy, energy efficiency, resource depletion,
chemical pollution, waste management,
water management and impact on biodiversity.
M Social issues vary from community-related
aspects, such as the improvement of health and
education, to workplace-related issues,
including the adherence to human rights,
non-discrimination and stakeholder engagement.
Examples of such issues include labour standards,
relations with local communities, talent
management, controversial business practices,
health standards or freedom of association.
M Governance issues concern the quality of
a company’s management, culture, risk
profile, among others. This includes the board
accountability and their dedication towards, and
strategic management of, social and environmental
performance. Furthermore, it emphasises principles
such as transparent reporting and the realisation
of management tasks in a manner that is free of
abuse and corruption. Examples include corporate
governance, bribery, corruption, stakeholder
dialogue or lobbying activities.
Based on any, or more, of the selected approaches outlined above, asset managers will define an ESG investment
strategy that will form the foundation of future reporting elements.
31 Eurosif Transparency Code: http://www.eurosif.org/wp-content/uploads/2018/04/Transparency-Code-4.0.pdf
32 Currently there is low comparability between data generated by different rating agencies and methodologies, and caution must be taken when doing so.
36 Luxembourg Stock Exchange | Guide to ESG Reporting
Luxembourg Stock Exchange | Guide to ESG Reporting 37
6.2 Defining ESG procedures and disclosing information
Asset managers typically use the Key Investor
Information Document (KIID) to lay out the ESG principles
followed as part of the investment policy of the relevant
fund. This section describes the objectives followed
in plain language. However, it is best practice
for asset managers to provide supplemental
ESG-relevant information via their website, prospectus,
factsheet documentation or any other type
of ESG policy documentation. This document generally
lays out how any relevant specific approaches outlined
in section 6.1 have been implemented and will continue
to be followed. To ensure that investors are given
a comprehensive picture, asset managers can comply
with the Eurosif Transparency Code.
For example, by following the Eurosif Transparency
Code, asset managers will provide information on:
» The dominant SRI strategy and the funds pertaining
to them
» The exclusions being applied
» How ESG matters, including risks and opportunities,
have been integrated into the investment decision
process
» The responsible investment initiatives that the asset
manager has signed up to (e.g. UN PRI, Carbon
Disclosure Project)
» The communication channels that will be used to
inform investors
Best-practice ESG reports also contain information
on relevant metrics indicative of the ESG impact
of the relevant strategy, or strategies, being pursued.
For example, in line with mandatory requirements
formulated by the Principles for Responsible Investment,
managers of sustainable financial instruments will
publish a "transparency report" where necessary.
In addition, depending on the ESG strategy pursued,
asset managers may commission an ESG label provider
to assess the ESG nature of their fund, before disclosing
to investors the relevant labels obtained, thereby
providing the relevant assurance.
38 Luxembourg Stock Exchange | Guide to ESG Reporting
6.3 Evaluating relevant reporting categories
and performance indicators
The type of information that is relevant to asset managers depends on the ESG investment approach defined in step 6.1.
For example, the following could be reported as a baseline for each strategy:
» Best-in-class: Average ESG-rating of the portfolio
or sectors within the portfolio.
» Engagement and voting: Outlining the asset
manager’s engagement activities and voting
behaviour metrics.
» Exclusions: Regular commitment to review, and,
if appropriate, update the exclusions list, as well
as updates to progress towards divestment.
This could be done when implementing a new addition
to the exclusions list.
» Sustainability-themed: The amount of the portfolio
invested in the sustainability-themes pursued.
» Norms-based screening: The amount of the portfolio
invested in line with the selected norms.
» Impact investing: depending on the impact pursued
as part of the strategy, metrics relevant to the
advancement of the objective. For climate changefocused strategies, this would include metrics on
greenhouse-gas reductions. For microfinance strategies,
relevant metrics could be the purpose, number
and average amount of microfinance loans provided.
» ESG-integration: Investment decisions and/or
the relating investment value impacted by ESG
considerations. Usually this is evidenced by ex-ante
or ex-post analysis conducted either in-house
or by other market players (e.g. Novethic) 33.
Asset managers will find it useful to use reporting templates such as the reporting framework provided by the Principles
for Responsible Investment 34.
6.4 Taking stock of internal data processes and collecting data
In general, asset managers can collect data on their
ESG strategy via their internal due diligence procedures.
Another approach for asset managers is assimilating
publicly disclosed information (e.g. as provided by the
companies within their portfolio), aggregating it and
compiling a sustainability-themed portfolio report.
To do so, asset managers generally aggregate the data
relative to the weight of the companies in the portfolio.
To estimate the impact of their portfolio, asset
managers may make use of data providers that offer
ESG impact conversion factors. Such factors are
sector-specific and have been, for example, developed
by aggregating reported impact information and
comparing such information against investment
in that sector. The result is a factor that is descriptive
of impact per unit of currency invested in a specific sector
(e.g. greenhouse gas emissions per $ million invested).
Asset managers can apply these factors to their portfolio
and estimate their impact for reporting purposes.
33 The CFA Institute and the PRI released a best practice report (Guidance and Case Studies for ESG Integration: Equities and Fixed Income) and three regional reports (one
for the Americas [AMER], one for Asia Pacific [APAC], and one for Europe, the Middle East, and Africa [EMEA]) to help investors understand how they can better integrate ESG
factors into their equity, corporate bond, and sovereign debt portfolios. source: https://www.unpri.org/investor-tools/esg-integration-in-europe-the-middle-east-and-africamarkets-practices-and-data-/4190.article
34 UN PRI Reporting Tool: https://www.unpri.org/signatories/reporting-for-signatories
Best-practice ESG reports also contain
information on relevant metrics indicative
of the ESG impact of the relevant strategy,
or strategies, being pursued.
Luxembourg Stock Exchange | Guide to ESG Reporting 39
6.5 Deciding on the best
format and reporting
period for publication
It is general market practice for asset managers to
publish their report to investors on an annual basis,
at the very least. This period would start from the
year following the year that the relevant fund was
launched. Asset managers generally choose to provide
supplemental ESG-relevant information via their
website, prospectus, factsheet documentation or any
other type of ESG-dedicated documentation.
Asset managers will need to assess their existing
reporting cycle and publications in order to identify
whether or not information on sustainable financial
products is best reported as part of, or separate to,
existing reporting structures.
6.6 Considering
external assurance
As noted previously in the Guide, asset managers
can seek an external verification of their funds
by applying to receive a SRI-focused label.
SRI-labels are issued on a fund-level after a label
provider analysis of an asset manager’s information
associated with the relevant fund has taken place.
SRI labels offer investors a quick-to-use tool to identify
whether or not certain funds are employing appropriate
SRI strategies. Further information regarding the
methodology employed by label provider organisations
can be found on their respective websites.
Examples of label providers include:
» LuxFLAG
» FNG Label
» Label ISR
» Nordic Swan
» Österreichisches Umweltzeichen
» Label transition énergétique
et écologique pour le climat (TEEC) 35
» Febelfin
35 Le label TEEC change de nom. Pendant environnemental du label ISR,
le label «transition énergétique et écologique pour le climat» (TEEC) devient
le «Greenfin label France finance verte»
40 Luxembourg Stock Exchange | Guide to ESG Reporting
Luxembourg Stock Exchange | Guide to ESG Reporting 41
Appendix A
Local initiatives regarding ESG and CSR
42 Luxembourg Stock Exchange | Guide to ESG Reporting
Institut National pour le Développement durable
et la Responsabilité sociale des entreprises (INDR)
Created in 2007, under the auspices of the Union
of Luxembourg Enterprises (l’Union des Entreprises
Luxembourgeoises (UEL), the National Institute
for Sustainable Development and Corporate Social
Responsibility (INDR) is tasked with the promotion of
Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) amongst national
companies in order to help these companies
to contribute to sustainable development while
improving their competitiveness and image.
By focusing on the benefits of CSR for companies
and stakeholders, the INDR:
» Plays an educational role through
the CSR Guide – Socially Responsible Business
» Plays a normative role through
the CSR Label (Label RSE) 36
» Offer a number of courses on CSR
in partnership with the House of Training
Inspiring More
Sustainability (IMS)
Inspiring More Sustainability (IMS) has been leading
a network of Luxembourg companies involved
in Corporate Social Responsibility for more than
10 years. The network represents 15% of the
Luxembourg payroll and is the national representative
of the CSR Europe.
IMS is active across four main pillars:
1 Raising awareness through communication
campaigns, conferences, forums, workshops
and trainings.
2 Running the leading CSR network through CSR
clubs, collaborative groups for sectoral innovation,
stakeholders’ engagement and the Luxembourg
Diversity Network and Diversity Charter.
3 Providing expertise through the guidance
and recommendations of member practices,
identification of possible areas of development,
partnerships with researchers and specialists,
publications and consulting CSR Europe’s expertise.
4 Proposing solutions through a dedicated toolkit,
creation of best practices, piloting of actions
to mutualise means across the territories, facilitating
diversity, sustainable purchases and partnerships
with associations (e.g. Part & Act programme
and Speed Meeting) among others.
IMS explores new solutions and concretely tests
sustainable alternatives through working groups
and pilot projects with positive impacts. Through
these projects, IMS facilitates innovative initiatives
by mobilising all stakeholders (private, public and
associative).
IMS projects tackle the following three issues:
1 People: Inclusion and diversity, happiness at work,
community engagement, youth, business and
human rights
2 Planet: Climate change, natural resources
and biodiversity, movement towards zero waste
3 Prosperity: Responsible production and
consumption, a new economic approach,
social business, transparency and reporting
IMS is an independent, apolitical, non-profit
organisation that benefits from the expertise
of an agile and creative team.
36 The CSR label enables business leaders to structure, formalise and enhance their social responsibility initiatives in order to create shared value for themselves and for society
Luxembourg Stock Exchange | Guide to ESG Reporting 43
Appendix B
Questions to guide ESG report preparation
Questions to guide companies
The following questions may be useful to corporate players
as they prepare their ESG reports:
1 How is the company moving towards a sustainable
business strategy?
2 How can ESG aspects support the achievement
of business goals?
3 What are the existing reporting requirements
in the market(s) where the company operates?
4 How can the company use ESG disclosure
to engage and align board members, senior
executives and employees?
5 What are the key issues and future goals that relate
to ESG from the point of view of the CEO and/or
Chairperson?
6 How are board members, senior executives, and
employees involved in ESG-related decision-making,
planning, monitoring and activities?
7 What is the company’s main reporting objective(s)?
8 What are the key ESG factors that impact
the company strategy in terms of the risks and
opportunities they present?
9 What are the company’s public commitments
towards sustainable development and corporate
responsibility?
10 Who are the company’s priority stakeholders?
What is the process for identifying them and how
often is that determination refreshed or updated?
How does the company know what ESG matters are
relevant for these stakeholders?
11 Which ESG factors are most relevant for
the company’s current and potential investors?
12 What does the company know about its existing
investor base and its information needs?
13 How would the company like to evolve its investor
roster in the next five years?
14 What does the company know about the information
needs of its future investor roster?
15 What is the company’s materiality determination
process related to ESG matters?
16 How do ESG factors fit within the company’s existing
materiality determination process?
17 Which ESG factors have the most impact
on the company’s long-term value creation?
18 Which ESG factors directly impact the company’s
short-term financial performance?
19 Has the company identified what information
investors need?
20 How does the company maintain and enhance
its relationship with investors?
21 How does the company compare with respect
to ESG management among its benchmarked peers?
22 What ESG factors are linked to current and potential
regulations?
23 How are investors, and potentially other
stakeholders, using the company’s disclosure?
24 How can the company leverage ESG disclosure
to deepen relationships with investors?
25 How can the company use investors’ feedback
to improve performance?
26 How has the company effectively engaged investors?
27 What alternative methods does the company need
to explore to engage investors?
28 How does the company use feedback from investors
in its decision-making processes?
29 How do financial disclosure controls and obligations
apply to the company’s ESG disclosure?
30 What level(s) of assurance is meaningful and
feasible?
31 What level(s) of assurance do investors expect?
32 How does the company determine which third
party is the most effective and relevant to assure
the company’s disclosure?
44 Luxembourg Stock Exchange | Guide to ESG Reporting
Questions to guide green, social or sustainability bond issuers
The following questions may be useful to prospective issuers
as they prepare their ESG reports:
1 What are the key organisational objectives
for the future, and how does an ESG strategy fit
into advancing these objectives?
2 How are your business objectives already aligned
to advancing ESG outcomes?
3 How can you use an ESG strategy to engage
and align board members, senior executives
and employees, as well as investors and the public?
4 What are the key ESG factors that could impact
your strategy in terms of the risks and opportunities
they present?
5 Could the issuance of green, social or sustainability
bond be a cornerstone of your strategy?
6 What projects and/or other activities do you engage
in (or plan to engage in) that are recognised by market
standards (e.g. Green Bond Principles, Social Bond
Principles, Sustainability Bond Guidelines, Climate Bond
Standard) as being green, social and/or sustainability?
7 What do you know about your existing investor base,
and would it be diversified as a consequence
of a green, social and sustainability bond issuance?
8 Does your organisational accounting system allow
for the tracking of green, social or sustainability
bond proceeds? If not, can you establish a green,
social, or sustainability dedicated account?
9 How are board members, senior executives, and
employees involved in ESG-related decision-making,
and identification of green, social or sustainability
projects and activities?
10 What are your main reporting objectives, and do
they already capture ESG-related information (e.g.
carbon footprint, energy use)?
11 Which metrics would be indicative of ESG progress
and impact in relation to your projects and/or
activities?
12 How do you currently compare with respect
to ESG data capture in relation to your peers?
13 Have you finalised and published to investors/
the public a green, social or sustainability bond
framework, where you detail your use and
management of proceeds, method of project
selection, and reporting intentions?
14 What level(s) of assurance in addition to a second
opinion are meaningful and feasible for your framework
and future reporting?
Luxembourg Stock Exchange | Guide to ESG Reporting 45
Questions to guide asset
managers of SRI funds
The following questions may be useful
to asset managers as they prepare
their ESG reports:
1 What are the key organisational objectives
for the future, and how does an ESG strategy
fit into advancing these objectives?
2 How does sustainability fit within your investment
philosophy?
3 What ESG-related knowledge, skills, data and tools
do you have to better support investment decisions
by using these ESG considerations?
4 What are the main medium- and long-term risks
and opportunities you believe industries/companies
will need to respond to?
5 What are the limitations of your current
ESG strategy in capturing and addressing these risks
and opportunities you have identified?
6 Would an additional/other ESG strategy better
address those risks and opportunities?
7 What data do you lack to measure the performance
of your ESG strategy, and the ESG performance
of your portfolio more widely?
8 Which are the main sectors that you invest in,
and which metrics could be most descriptive
of environmental impact of activities within
these sectors?
9 How are investors, and potentially other
stakeholders, using your disclosure?
10 Do you know which ESG data your target investors
are looking for?
11 How can you leverage ESG disclosure to deepen
relationships with investors?
12 What are your main reporting objective(s)
and cycles, and what are the opportunities
to enhance your reporting with ESG information?
13 How do you currently compare with respect
to ESG data capture in relation to your peers?
14 Would it be meaningful and beneficial for you
to seek a label from a label provider?
46 Luxembourg Stock Exchange | Guide to ESG Reporting
Luxembourg Stock Exchange | Guide to ESG Reporting 47
Appendix C
Reporting initiatives
48 Luxembourg Stock Exchange | Guide to ESG Reporting
Overview of tools for identifying
ESG factors for reporting
» UN Global Compact’s best practices related to the GC Advanced
Communication on Progress in the areas of human rights, labour,
environment and anti-corruption
» UN Guiding Principles Reporting Framework addresses reporting
on human rights according to the UN Guiding Principles on Business
and Human Rights
» UNCTAD’s Guidance on Good Practices in Corporate Governance
Disclosure establishes a benchmark for identifying corporate governance
issues that could be included in corporate reporting
» CDP’s disclosure requirements regarding emissions, water and forests
» Climate Disclosure Standards Board’s (CDSB) Framework for reporting
environmental information and natural capital in mainstream financial
reports
» GRI G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines, with over 140 indicators that
address ESG issues across all sectors, vetted by an array of stakeholders
» The International Integrated Reporting Framework and its six capitals
» Sustainability Accounting Standards Board’s (SASB) standards identify
factors that are likely to constitute material information for companies
in an industry (with a median of five disclosure topics per industry)
» The Financial Stability Board (FSB) Task Force on TCFD reporting
recommendations
Luxembourg Stock Exchange | Guide to ESG Reporting 49
Details on the organisations mentioned in the Guide
Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP)
CDP is a global non-profit organisation founded
in 2000 and headquartered in London. CDP requests
standardized climate change, water and forest
information from some of the world’s largest listed
companies through annual questionnaires sent
on behalf of institutional investors who are endorsed
as ‘CDP signatories’. These shareholder requests
for information encourage companies to account for -
and be transparent about - environmental risks.
Climate Disclosure Standards Board (CDSB)
CDSB is a consortium of eight business and environmental
organisations which include CDP, CERES, The Climate
Group, The Climate Registry (TCR), The International
Emissions Trading Association (IETA), World Council
for Business and Sustainable Development (WCBSD),
World Economic Forum (WEF) and World Resources Institute
(WRI). The organisation is supported by a Technical
Working Group consisting of businesses, accountancy
bodies, major accountancy firms, academia, as well as
investors. CDSB is committed to advancing and aligning
the global mainstream corporate reporting model to
equate natural capital with financial capital by offering
companies a framework for reporting on environmental
information with the same rigour as financial information.
Global Reporting Initiative (GRI)
GRI is an international, non-profit organisation working in
the public interest towards a vision of a sustainable global
economy where organisations manage their economic,
environmental, social and governance performance
and responsibility is impacted. Thousands of corporate
and public sector reporters in over 90 countries use the
GRI Guidelines. More than 24,000 reports have been
registered in GRI’s Sustainability Disclosure Database
with 27 countries and regions referencing GRI in their
policies. GRI’s activities are two-fold: firstly, in the provision
of sustainability reporting guidelines and secondly,
in the development of engagement activities, products
and partnerships to enhance the value of sustainability
reporting for organisations.
International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC)
The IIRC is a group of international leaders from
the corporate, investment, accounting, securities,
regulatory, academic, standard-setting and civil areas
of society who have been tasked with creating
the Integrated Reporting Framework. This framework
will provide material information about an organisation’s
strategy, governance, performance and prospects
in a concise and comparable format which marks
a fundamental shift in corporate reporting.
Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB)
SASB is a non-profit organisation, based in the
United States that issues sustainability accounting
standards that can be used by reporting issuers
to disclose material sustainability information in filings
with the Securities and Exchange Commission. SASB
standards identify sustainability topics and related
accounting metrics, at an industry level, that are likely
to constitute material information to companies in that
industry. Since the beginning of 2016, SASB is developing
provisional standards for more than 80 industries
in 10 sectors. SASB’s standards development process
includes evidence-based research, multi-stakeholder
working groups, a 90-day public comment period
and a review by an independent standards council.
Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD)
The TCFD, which is facilitated by The Financial Stability
Board (FSB), provides an industry-driven, voluntary
framework that encourages the consistent financial
disclosure of material climate related risks and
opportunities for use by investors, lenders, insurers and
other stakeholders. In developing this framework, the TCFD
considered the material physical and transition risks, as
well as the opportunities associated with climate change
and what constitutes effective financial disclosures
across eight key sectors. The recommendations are
designed to help firms understand what financial markets
want from this disclosure in order to assess and manage
climate-related risks and opportunities which in turn
encourages listed equities and fixed income issuers
to align their disclosures with investors’ needs.
50 Luxembourg Stock Exchange | Guide to ESG Reporting
United Nations Conference on Trade and Development’s
Intergovernmental Working Group of Experts on
International Standards of Accounting and Reporting (ISAR)
ISAR assists developing countries and economies
in transition to implement best practices in corporate
transparency and accounting in order to facilitate
investment flows and economic development.
The ISAR achieves this through an integrated process
of research, intergovernmental consensus building,
information dissemination and technical cooperation.
United Nations Global Compact (UN Global Compact)
The UN Global Compact is a leadership platform
for the development, implementation and disclosure of
responsible corporate policies and practices. Launched
in 2000, it is the largest corporate sustainability initiative
in the world with over 8,000 companies and 4,000
non-business signatories based in 160 countries and
over 85 Local Networks. The UN Global Compact is
a voluntary initiative that encourages companies to
align their operations and strategies with ten universally
accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labour,
environment and anti-corruption. It also encourages
companies to take action in support of UN goals and
issues. Business participants are expected to publicly
report on their progress in an annual Communication
on Progress. For guidance on global best practices
on reporting on comprehensive ESG information, see GC
Advanced criteria and GC Basic Reporting Guidance.
United Nations Guiding Principles Reporting
Framework (UNGP Reporting Framework)
The UNGP Reporting Framework has been developed by
the Human Rights Reporting and Assurance Frameworks
Initiative (RAFI), which is co-facilitated by business
and human rights experts, Shift and international
accountancy firm, Mazars. The UNGP Reporting
Framework is the first comprehensive guidance for
companies to report on human rights issues which aligns
with their responsibility to respect human rights as set
out in the UN Guiding Principles. It provides a concise set
of questions for companies to consider and report on
in order to know and show that they are meeting their
responsibilities to respect human rights. It offers clear
and concise guidance on how to answer these questions
with relevant and meaningful information about human
rights policies, processes and performance.
Luxembourg Stock Exchange | Guide to ESG Reporting 51
Appendix D
Global sustainability standards and principles
AA1000 Stakeholder Engagement Standard
Developed by AccountAbility, a U.K.-based global
organisation, AA1000 is a series of standards designed
to help organisations become more accountable
and sustainable. They address priorities, performance
and targets in governance, sustainability assurance and
inclusive stakeholder engagement, among others, and
complement standards such as ISO9001 and ISO14001.
Climate Bonds Standard
The Climate Bonds Standard and Certification Scheme
is a Fairtrade-like labelling scheme for bonds.
Scientific criteria ensure that it is consistent with the
2 degrees Celsius warming limit in the Paris Agreement.
The Scheme is used globally by bond issuers,
governments, investors and the financial markets
to prioritise investments which genuinely contribute
to addressing climate change.
Eurosif
Eurosif is a non-profit association which promotes
sustainable and responsible investment (SRI).
In 2004, Eurosif produced a set of European
Transparency Guidelines for funds transparency, which
built the foundations for the European SRI Transparency
Code, first launched in May 2008. The European SRI
Transparency Code was the first framework for SRI in the
industry that primarily aims to increase accountability
and clarity of SRI practices for European investors.
International Capital Market Association Green
Bond Principles
Green bonds enable capital-raising and investment for
new and existing projects with environmental benefits.
The Green Bond Principles (GBP), updated in June 2018,
are voluntary process guidelines that recommend
transparency and disclosure and promote integrity
in the development of the green bond market by
clarifying the approach for issuance of a green bonds.
The GBP are intended for broad use by the market as
they provide issuers guidance on the key components
involved in launching a credible green bond. They also
aid investors by ensuring the availability of information
necessary to evaluate the environmental impact of their
green bond investments and they assist underwriters
by moving the market towards standard disclosures
which will facilitate transactions.
International Capital Market Association Social
Bond Principles
Social bonds are use of proceeds bonds that raise
funds for new and existing projects with positive
social outcomes. The Social Bond Principles (SBP),
which were updated in June 2018, promote integrity
in the social bond market through guidelines that
recommend transparency, disclosure and reporting.
They are intended for use by market participants
and are designed to drive the provision of information
needed to increase capital allocation to social projects.
International Capital Market Association Sustainability
Bond Guidelines
Sustainability bonds are bonds where the proceeds will be
exclusively applied to finance or re-finance a combination
of both green and social projects. The Sustainability
Bond Guidelines (SBG), which were published in June 2018,
confirm the relevance of the Principles in this context and
facilitate the application of their guidance on transparency
and disclosure to the sustainability bond market. The
common four core components of the Principles and their
recommendations on the use of external reviews and impact
reporting therefore also apply to sustainability bonds.
International Labour Organization, Tripartite
Declaration of Principles Concerning Multinational
Enterprises and Social Policy (MNE Declaration)
The MNE Declaration provides guidelines to companies
and governments, as well as employee and labour
organisations in areas such as employment, training,
conditions of work and life and industrial relations.
Companies can use these guidelines to enhance the
positive social and labour effects of their operations.
ISO26000 Guidance on Social Responsibility
ISO26000 is an international guidance standard
on social responsibility for organisations of all sizes
in the public and private sector and includes specific
guidance on communication surrounding social
responsibility. The standard was issued in November
2010 after five years of work that included contributions
from some 450 experts from 99 countries as well
as 200 observers and 42 regional or global liaison
organisations such as the Consumers International,
the International Labour Organization, UNCTAD,
the UN Global Compact and the World Health Organisation.
52 Luxembourg Stock Exchange | Guide to ESG Reporting
OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises
These OECD Guidelines are far-reaching recommendations
addressed by governments to multinational enterprises
operating in, or are from, adhering countries.
They provide voluntary principles and standards
for responsible business conduct in areas such
as employment and industrial relations, human rights,
environment, information disclosure, combating bribery,
consumer interests, science and technology, competition
and taxation. Chapter III covers disclosure and calls
on enterprises to be transparent in their operations
and responsive to the public’s increasingly sophisticated
demands for information.
The Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI)
The PRI is an organization that works to understand
the investment implications of ESG factors and support
its international network of investor signatories in
incorporating these factors into their investment and
ownership decisions. It encourages investors to use
responsible investment to enhance returns and better
manage risks, but does not operate for its own profit.
The PRI engages with global policymakers but is not
associated with any government and while it is supported
by the United Nations, it is not a part of the organisation.
Luxembourg Stock Exchange | Guide to ESG Reporting 53
Appendix E
Template for green, social and sustainability bond reporting
Use of proceeds
Impact and other information
ISIN Total proceeds
allocated
Total proceeds
not allocated
Proceeds
allocated
to the
renewable
energy sector
Proceeds
allocated
to clean
transportation
sector
Proceeds
allocated
to energy
efficiency
XS12345689 €400 MEUR €100 MEUR €85 MEUR €10 MEUR €5 MEUR
Project/
Portfolio name
Project/
portfolio
description
Eligible
activities
category
ISIN of Green
Bond(s)
proceeds used
Total project/
portfolio
investment
Amount
of green bond
proceeds allocated
Northeast
Wave Power One
Construction,
installation and
operation of 10
wave power units
Renewable
energy
XS12345689 €100 MEUR €75 MEUR
54 Luxembourg Stock Exchange | Guide to ESG Reporting
Project start
date/end date
(if relevant)
Share of proceeds
used for direct
financing vs
refinancing
Share of
co-financing
by others
Share of
proceeds allocated
to CAPEX vs OPEX
Impact
metric (relative)
2016 ongoing 100% direct 25% 90% CAPEX,
10% OPEX
-25kt CO2e
