NZX Corporate Governance Code
2017
Contents
NZX Corporate Governance Code 03
Principle 1 – Code of Ethical Behaviour 07
Principle 2 – Board Composition
& Performance 09
Principle 3 – Board Committees 14
Principle 4 – Reporting & Disclosure 18
Principle 5 – Remuneration 21
Principle 6 – Risk Management 24
Principle 7 – Auditors 26
Principle 8 – Shareholder Rights & Relations
28
02
NZX Corporate Governance Code
PURPOSE & STRUCTURE OF PRINCIPLES
The overarching purpose of the NZX Corporate Governance Code (the NZX Code) is to promote good
corporate governance, recognising that boards are in place to protect the interests of shareholders and
to provide long-term value.
Strong governance can lead to a lower cost of capital and higher valuations for issuers. Regulation has an
important role to play in improving corporate governance standards. The NZX Code is set out in
Appendix 16 to the NZX Main Board Rules (Listing Rules), which all listed issuers must report against.1
The NZX Code is structured around eight principles:
1. Code of ethical behaviour – directors should set high standards of ethical behavior, model
this behavior and hold management accountable for these standards being followed
throughout the organisation.
2. Board composition and performance – to ensure an effective board, there should be a
balance of independence, skills, knowledge, experience and perspectives.
3. Board committees – the Board should use committees where this will enhance its
effectiveness in key areas, while still retaining board responsibility.
4. Reporting and disclosure – the Board should demand integrity in financial and non-financial
reporting and in the timeliness and balance of corporate disclosures.
5. Remuneration – the remuneration of directors and executives should be transparent, fair
and reasonable.
6. Risk management – directors should have a sound understanding of the material risks faced
by the issuer and how to manage them. The Board should regularly verify that the issuer
has appropriate processes that identify and manage potential and material risks.
7. Auditors – the Board should ensurethe quality and independence of theexternal audit process.
8. Shareholder rights and relations – the Board should respect the rights of shareholders and
foster relationships with shareholders that encourage them to engage with the issuer.
The NZX Code outlines recommendations under each principle recommending areas of good practice. If
a particular recommendation is not appropriate for an issuer given its size or stage of development the
issuer can explain why it has chosen not to adopt the recommendation and the alternative measures it has
in place. The NZX Code therefore seeks to balance a desire to promote strong corporate governance
while remaining flexible so that boards and issuers can determine the appropriate corporate governance
practices for their businesses. Issuers should be continuously reviewing their corporate governance
practices and seeking to improve these over time. NZX encourages issuers to think about disclosure on a
1. Under Listing Rules 10.4.5 (h) – (m)
NZX Corporate Governance Code 2017
03
Overarching theme or concept
Comply or explain NZX Code - reporting
requirements
Voluntary
Prescriptive mandatory requirements
Principles
Recommendations
Commentary
Listing Rules
The NZX Main Board Rules
Listing Rule 10.4.5(i) requires an issuer to provide NZX with a statement on its corporate governance
reporting. The statement must disclose the extent to which the issuer has followed the recommendations
set by NZX during the reporting period and be current as at the effective date specified for the purpose
of Listing Rule 10.4.5 (see below for how more about the form in which this can be disclosed).
The disclosures under Listing Rule 10.4.5(i) relate to the recommendations in the NZX Code. The
principles themselves and commentary about the principles do not form part of the recommendations and
therefore do not trigger any disclosure requirements under the Listing Rules.
Comply or explain
The Listing Rules act to encourage issuers to adopt the NZX Code but do not force them to do so. This
allows an issuer flexibility to adopt other corporate governance practices considered by the Board to be
more suitable. Under the NZX Code, if the Board of an issuer considers that a recommendation is not
appropriate because it does not fit the issuer’s circumstances, it is entitled not to adopt it. If it does not
adopt it, it must explain why it has not. This is the basis of the ‘comply or explain’ (‘if not, why not’)
approach. Requiring this explanation ensures that the market receives an appropriate level of information
about the issuer’s governance arrangements so that:
a. investors and other stakeholders can have a meaningful dialogue with the Board and management
on corporate governance matters;
NZX Corporate Governance Code 2017
continuous basis and not simply as an annual event. The recommendations have been drafted with the
intention of allowing flexibility between disclosure in an Annual Report or on an issuers website. NZX also
notes the value of independence on boards. Formal independence requirements currently sit in the Listing
Rules and will be reviewed in due course.
HOW TO APPLY THE NZX CODE
The NZX Code applies to all listed issuers on the NZX Main Board that do not fall under an exception in
the Listing Rules. There are specific recommendations intended to give effect to the general principles,
as well as explanatory commentary in relation to both the principles and recommendations. The diagram
below illustrates the hierarchy of the ‘comply or explain’ regime (described below) and how each issuer
should interpret the principles, recommendations and commentary.
04
b. investors can use such information to help make decisions on how to vote on particular resolutions; and
c. investors can factor that information into their decision on whether or not to invest in the issuer.
Reporting against the NZX Code
An issuer should explain what policies and practices it has in place in respect of the recommendation, and
inform the investor or stakeholder where they can find any material referred to and where to find out
more about their policies, which can be updated over time as practices develop and change. This is to
demonstrate that the corporate governance practices of the issuer will evolve over time.
The disclosure of an issuer’s compliance with the NZX Code is intended to be flexible so that disclosure
can either be:
in its annual report - where an issuer chooses to include its statement in the annual report rather than its
website, NZX recommends that the statement and any related disclosures appear in a clearly labeled
corporate governance section; or
on its website - disclosures should be clearly presented and centrally located on or accessible from the
landing page of the website, and the link should be easy to locate, prominently displayed in a category
such as ‘About Us’ or ‘Investor Centre’; or
a combination of both reporting in the annual report and cross referencing on the website.
Issuers may incorporate material by reference as long as the material referred to is freely available and the
statement clearly tells you where you can read or obtain a copy of it (such as a URL of a website).
Disclosing that a recommendation is not followed
If the issuer has not followed a recommendation for any part of the reporting period, its statement must
separately identify that recommendation and what (if any) corporate governance arrangements it adopted
in lieu of the recommendation during that period. An issuer’s corporate governance statement must
specify the date at which it is current. This must be the issuer’s balance date or a later date specified by
the issuer and state that it has been approved by the Board of the issuer. A statement regarding the
explanation of why a recommendation was not followed should:
be reasonably detailed and informative so that the market understands why it is that the issuer has
chosen not to follow the recommendation;
disclose the alternative practices it has, if any, employed in lieu of the recommendation and explain why
they are more appropriate than the NZX Code in this instance; and
avoid being short and uninformative, without analysis and unhelpful to investors.
Exceptions
Dual listed issuers are excluded from the Listing Rules in respect of annual reports content.2
Overseas listed issuers are deemed under Listing Rule 5.1.7 to satisfy and comply with all the rules
(including as to the content for annual reports) for so long as they remain listed on their home exchange
(provided NZX can decide a rule does apply from time to time). The issuers’ annual reports should contain
a statement that the home exchange’s governance rules and principles may materially differ from NZX’s
corporate governance rules and NZX Code.
2. See Appendix 17 of the Listing Rules, as set out in Listing Rule 5.1.5.
NZX Corporate Governance Code 2017
05
Issuers with only debt securities quoted are not required comply with Listing Rule 10.4.5(i).3
EFFECTIVE DATE
The NZX Code will apply for all reporting periods from 1 October 2017, making it required reporting for
the 31 December 2017 year end period. Issuers may choose to adopt the recommendations earlier.
Under a class ruling this will be sufficient to meet the existing requirements under the Listing Rules in
effect prior to the effective date of the updated NZX Code.
NZX’S CONSULTATION APPROACH
In 2015, NZX commenced a comprehensive review of the previous Corporate Governance Best Practice
Code. This was the first substantive update to the Code since 2003 and involved two rounds of formal
feedback from market participants. NZX received over 80 submissions during the course of the review from
a wide range of industry participants in New Zealand and offshore. NZX also engaged global market
research company, TNS Qualitative Research to conduct interviews with 15 small to medium sized issuers
to obtain their views on the issues raised, to ensure all the feedback from this sector of the market was
considered as part of the review process.
The updated NZX Code seeks to more closely align with the Financial Markets Authority Corporate
Governance in New Zealand Handbook - Principles and Guidance and the ASX Corporate Governance
Principles and Recommendations.
Theupdated NZX Codehas beenreviewed by the NZX Board and approved by theFinancial Markets Authority.
3. See Appendix 5 of the Listing Rules.
NZX Corporate Governance Code 2017
06
Principle 1 – Code of Ethical Behaviour
"Directors should set high standards of ethical behaviour, model this
behaviour and hold management accountable for these standards being
followed throughout the organisation."

RECOMMENDATION 1.1
1.1 The board should document minimum standards of ethical behaviour to which the issuer’s
directors and employees are expected to adhere (a code of ethics).
The code of ethics and where to find it should be communicated to the issuer’s employees.
Training should be provided regularly. The standards may be contained in a single policy
document or more than one policy.
The code of ethics should outline internal reporting procedures for any breach of ethics, and
describe the issuer’s expectations about behaviour, namely that every director and employee:
a. acts honestly and with personal integrity in all actions;
b. declares conflicts of interest and proactively advises of any potential conflicts;
c. undertakes proper receipt and use of corporate information, assets and property;
d. in the case of directors, gives proper attention to the matters before them;
e. acts honestly and in the best interests of the issuer, shareholders and stakeholders and as
required by law;
f. adheres to any procedures around giving and receiving gifts (for example, where gifts are
given that are of value in order to influence employees and directors, such gifts should not
be accepted);
g. adheres to any procedures about whistle blowing (for example, where actions of a whistle
blower have complied with the issuer’s procedures, an issuer should protect and support
them, whether or not action is taken); and
h. manages breaches of the code
NZX Corporate Governance Code 2017
07

RECOMMENDATION 1.2
1.2 Anissuer should havea financial product dealing policy whichapplies to employees and directors.

08
Principle 2 – Board Composition
& Performance
“To ensure an effective board, there should be a balance of independence,
skills, knowledge, experience and perspectives.”

RECOMMENDATION 2.1
2.1 The board of an issuer should operate under a written charter which sets out the roles and
responsibilities of the board. The board charter should clearly distinguish and disclose the
respective roles and responsibilities of the board and management.

RECOMMENDATION 2.2
2.2 Every issuer should have a procedure for the nomination and appointment of directors to
the board.

RECOMMENDATION 2.3
2.3 An issuer should enter into written agreements with each newly appointed director
establishing the terms of their appointment.

RECOMMENDATION 2.4
2.4 Every issuer should disclose information about each director in its annual report
or on its website, including a profile of experience, length of service, independence and
ownership interests.
NZX Corporate Governance Code 2017
11

RECOMMENDATION 2.5
2.5 An issuer should have a written diversity policy which includes requirements for the board
or a relevant committee of the board to set measurable objectives for achieving diversity
(which, at a minimum, should address gender diversity) and to assess annually both the
objectives and the entity’s progress in achieving them. The issuer should disclose the policy or
a summary of it.

RECOMMENDATION 2.6
2.6 Directors should undertake appropriate training to remain current on how to best perform
their duties as directors of an issuer.

RECOMMENDATION 2.7
2.7 The board should have a procedure to regularly assess director, board and
committee performance.

RECOMMENDATION 2.8
2.8 The Chair and the CEO should be different people.

Principle 3 – Board Committees
“The board should use committees where this will enhance its effectiveness
in key areas, while still retaining board responsibility.”

RECOMMENDATION 3.1
3.1 An issuer’s audit committee should operate under a written charter. Membership on the
audit committee should be majority independent6
 and comprise solely of non-executive
directors of the issuer. The chair of the audit committee should not also be the chair of the board.

RECOMMENDATION 3.2
3.2 Employees should only attend audit committee meetings attheinvitation oftheaudit committee.

RECOMMENDATION 3.3
3.3 An issuer should have a remuneration committee which operates under a written charter
(unless this is carried out by the whole board). At least a majority of the remuneration
committee should be independent directors. Management should only attend remuneration
committee meetings at the invitation of the remuneration committee.

3.4 An issuer should establish a nomination committee to recommend director appointments
to the board (unless this is carried out by the whole board), which should operate under a
written charter. At least a majority of the nomination committee should be independent directors.

RECOMMENDATION 3.5
3.5 An issuer should consider whether it is appropriate to have any other board committees as
standing board committees. All committees should operate under written charters. An issuer
should identify the members ofeach of its committees, and periodically report member attendance.
An issuer may choose to have other specific committees depending on the nature of their businesses, for
example a health and safety committee.
Each committee should have a written charter that clearly sets out the roles and responsibilities of the
committee. The members of the committee should be identified. The members should have an
appropriate mix of experience and skills. Proceedings of committees should be reported back to the
board. Recommendation 4.2 recommends that the charters of board committees be made available on
the issuer’s website.
NZX Corporate Governance Code 2017
16
Although an issuer may decide that it is not appropriate to have some of the separate committees
recommended above, as it increases in size and scale it should continue to assess whether additional
committees are appropriate in future.
RECOMMENDATION 3.6
3.6 The board should establish appropriate protocols that set out the procedure to be followed
if there is a takeover offer for the issuer including any communication between insiders and the
bidder. It should disclose the scope of independent advisory reports to shareholders. These
protocols should include the option of establishing an independent takeover committee, and
the likely composition and implementation of an independent takeover committee.
It is useful for issuers to have appropriate protocols in place for dealing with takeovers given that issuers
will often need to react quickly in response to any approach. Independence is an important issue in the
context of takeovers and therefore any takeover committee should be independent of the bidder.
NZX Corporate Governance Code 2017
17
Principle 4 – Reporting & Disclosure
“The board should demand integrity in financial and non financial
reporting, and in the timeliness and balance of corporate disclosures.”

RECOMMENDATION 4.1
4.1 An issuer’s board should have a written continuous disclosure policy.

RECOMMENDATION 4.2
4.2 An issuer should make its code of ethics, board and committee charters and the policies
recommended in the NZX Code, together with any other key governance documents, available
on its website.

RECOMMENDATION 4.3
4.3 Financial reporting should be balanced, clear and objective. An issuer should provide non
financial disclosure at least annually, including considering material exposure to environmental,
economic and social sustainability risks and other key risks. It should explain how it plans to
manage those risks and how operational or non financial targets are measured.

Principle 5 – Remuneration
“The remuneration of directors and executives should be transparent, fair
and reasonable.”

RECOMMENDATION 5.1
5.1 An issuer should recommend director remuneration to shareholders for approval in a
transparent manner. Actual director remuneration should be clearly disclosed in the issuer’s
annual report.

RECOMMENDATION 5.2
5.2 An issuer should have a remuneration policy for remuneration of directors and officers,
which outlines therelative weightings ofremunerationcomponents and relevant performancecriteria.

RECOMMENDATION 5.3
5.3 An issuer should disclose the remuneration arrangements in place for the CEO in its annual
report. This should include disclosure of the base salary, short term incentives and long term
incentives and the performance criteria used to determine performance based payments.

Principle 6 – Risk Management
“Directors should have a sound understanding of the material risks faced
by the issuer and how to manage them. The Board should regularly verify
that the issuer has appropriate processes that identify and manage
potential and material risks.”

RECOMMENDATION 6.1
6.1 An issuer should have a risk management framework for its business and the issuer’s board
should receive and review regular reports. A framework should also be put in place to manage
any existing risks and to report the material risks facing the business and how these are
being managed.

RECOMMENDATION 6.2
6.2 An issuer should disclose how it manages its health and safety risks and should report on
their health and safety risks, performance and management.

Principle 7 – Auditors
“The board should ensure the quality and independence of the external
audit process.”

7.1 The board should establish a framework for the issuer’s relationship with its external
auditors. This should include procedures:
(a) for sustaining communication with the issuer’s external auditors;
(b) to ensure that the ability of the external auditors to carry out their statutory audit role is not
impaired, or could reasonably be perceived to be impaired;10
(c) to address what, if any, services (whether by type or level) other than their statutory audit
roles may be provided by the auditors to the issuer; and
(d) to provide for the monitoring and approval by the issuer’s audit committee of any service
provided by the external auditors to the issuer other than in their statutory audit role.

RECOMMENDATION 7.2
7.2 The external auditor should attend the issuer’s Annual Meeting to answer questions from
shareholders in relation to the audit.
Commentary
Every issuer should ensure that their external auditor attends their Annual Meetings and that they are
available to answer questions from investors relevant to the audit.
RECOMMENDATION 7.3
7.3 Internal audit functions should be disclosed.

Principle 8 – Shareholder Rights
& Relations
“The board should respect the rights of shareholders and foster
constructive relationships with shareholders that encourage them to engage
with the issuer.”

RECOMMENDATION 8.1
8.1 An issuer should have a website where investors and interested stakeholders can access
financial and operational information and key corporate governance information about the issuer.

RECOMMENDATION 8.2
8.2 An issuer should allow investors the ability to easily communicate with the issuer, including
providing the option to receive communications from the issuer electronically.

RECOMMENDATION 8.3
8.3 Shareholders should have the right to vote on major decisions which may change the nature
of the company in which they are invested in.

RECOMMENDATION 8.4
8.4 Each person who invests money in a company should have one vote per share of the
company they own equally with other shareholders.

RECOMMENDATION 8.5
8.5 The board should ensure that the annual shareholders notice of meeting is posted on the
issuer’s website as soon as possible and at least 28 days prior to the meeting
As part of encouraging shareholder participation in meetings, clear meaningful information about the
matters to be addressed at the meetings should be provided to shareholders with sufficient notice in
advance of the meeting. Information should be provided at least 28 days in advance of a meeting to allow
sufficient time for shareholders to consider such information.

