1
Authorised Use Only – PUBLIC
SUSTAINABILITY DISCLOSURE
GUIDELINES1

1 Rule Making History
1. The draft Guidelines were presented to the Rules and Adjudication Committee of Council (RAC) at the RAC Meeting
of 29 November 2016 and approved for exposure to stakeholders for comments;
2. The draft Guidelines were exposed for stakeholders’ comments from 14 December 2016 to 16 January 2017;
3. The RAC considered the draft Guidelines, and stakeholders’ comments thereon at its Meeting of 20 March 2017
and approved the draft Rules for submission to the National Council of The Exchange (Council);
4. The Council approved the draft Guidelines at its Meeting of 25 May 2017 for submission to the Securities and
Exchange Commission (SEC);
5. The Council approved Guidelines were submitted to the SEC for approval on 16 June 2017;
6. The SEC approved the Guidelines on 9 November 2018.
2
Authorised Use Only – PUBLIC
TABLE OF CONTENTS
1. Introduction Page 3
2. Section 1: Sustainability Value Proposition Page 4
3. Section 2: Approach to Integrating Sustainability in Organisations Page 9
4. Section 3: Principles and Core Elements Page 12
5. Section 4: Reporting Requirements Page 17
- Bibliography Page 21

SECTION 1. RELEVANCE AND VALUE PROPOSITION
1.1 Overview
The leadership role of governments, market regulators, operators, inter-governmental organisations and
international associations with regard to implementing sustainability policies and regulation, is increasingly
evidenced by the growing trend towards responsible investment through initiatives such as United Nations
Environment Programme Finance Initiative (UNEPFI), United Nations Principles for Responsible Initiative
(UNPRI), Sustainable Stock Exchanges Initiative (SSE), World Federation of Exchanges (WFE), Investor
Network on Climate Risk and the Corporate Sustainability Reporting Coalition led by AVIVA Investors.
Global sustainable investment market has continued to grow, rising from $13.3 trillion at the outset of 2012
to $21.4 trillion at the start of 2014, and from 21.5 percent to 30.2 percent of the professionally managed
assets. In the past 10 years, ESG Funds and Asset under Management (AUM) has continued to grow both in
absolute and relative terms. For instance, AUM for PRI signatories now stands at more than $59 trillion, up
from $4 trillion at the PRI’s launch in 2006.
0
50
100
150
200
2006 2010 2013
Regulatory And Voluntary Initiatives
Requiring Sustainability Reporting
Mandatory
Voluntary
5
Authorised Use Only – PUBLIC
Source: United Nations Principles for Responsible Investment (UNPRI)
Therefore, transparency around how a company manages ESG risks and opportunities should be disclosed as
part of its value proposition. As a result, the financial community increasingly recognizes that to thoroughly
assess an investment, it should also analyze relevant ESG factors.
1.2. Sustainability: Conceptual Clarification
It is important to note that these Guidelines use the term “Sustainability” as it is commonly used among
companies, while the term “ESG” is used interchangeably as it is common among investorsii. For the purpose
of these Guidelines, both terms encompass the broad set of economic, environmental, social and governance
considerations that can impact a company’s ability to execute its business strategy and create or destroy
value.
There is no universally agreed definition of what sustainability means. However, the idea of sustainability
stems from the concept of sustainable development which became common language at the World's first
Earth Summit in Rio in 1992. The original definition of sustainable development as stated in the Brundtland
Report for the World Commission on Environment and Development (1992) is usually considered to as
"Development that meets the needs of the present without compromising the ability of future generations
to meet their own needs."
0
200
400
600
800
1000
1200
1400
1600
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
Apr06
Apr07
Apr08
Apr09
Apr10
Apr11
Apr12
Apr13
Apr14
Apr15
Number of investors and AUM signed up to UN PRI
Assets under management (US$ trillion) Number of Signatories
6
Authorised Use Only – PUBLIC
While ESG factors are at times called “non-financial” or “extra-financial”, how a company manages them has
financial consequences. They can impact:
- Access to capital
- Resource efficiency, cost savings and productivity
- Risk management
- Revenue growth and market access
- Brand value and reputation
- License to operate
- Human capital- Employee retention and recruitment
- Company value as an acquisition target
- Ability to acquire other high-quality companies
For the purpose of these Guidelines, sustainability will encompass the following areas:
 Economic: This relates to the organisation’s impact on the economic conditions of its stakeholders
and the interaction or relationship with the economic systems at local, national, and global levels. It
does not merely focus on the financial conditions of organisations.
Financial performance is fundamental to understanding an organisation and its own sustainability.
However, this information is normally already reported in financial accounts. What is often reported
less, and is increasingly sought by users of sustainability reports such as investors, is the
organisation’s contribution to the sustainability of a larger economic system.
Environmental: The environmental dimension of sustainability concerns an organisation’s impact on
living and non-living natural systems, including ecosystems, land, air, and water. Environmental
indicators cover performance related to inputs (e.g., material, energy, water) and outputs (e.g.,
emissions, effluents, waste). iii
Social: The social dimension of sustainability concerns the impacts an organisation has on the social
systems such as labour practices, human rights and relationship with communities within which it
operates. iv
Governance: This will include subject areas of the NSE Corporate Governance Rating System. A key
indicator of sustainability integration is clear assignment of accountabilities and responsibilities for
environmental, social and broader economic performance from the Board level through the
corporate/group executive to the executive and operational management of each business division
within a company.
7
Authorised Use Only – PUBLIC
1.3 Relevance and value proposition for integrating sustainability in your organisation and reporting:
Enhanced Brand and Increased Competitive
Advantage:
 Exhibit corporate adherence to industry
ethical standards and national and
international frameworks on corporate
sustainability and sustainable development,
particularly in light of the UN Sustainable
Development Goals.
 Enhance corporate reputation by
improving stakeholders’ perception of a
company through reporting-‐related
stakeholder engagement.
 Improve employee perception of the
company, helping to attract, retain, motivate,
and align new and existing employees.
The Natural Marketing Institute (NMI) has found
in their consumer research that knowing a
company is mindful of its impact on the
environment and society makes consumers 58%
more likely to buy their products or services.
Increased Productivity and Reduced Costs
Through development of more sustainable
business practices, efficiency in operations will
increase. With better use and conservation of
resources, operations will be streamlined and
costs will decrease.
An example of a company implementing longterm sustainability measures to increase overall
efficiency and operational performance is
Walmart. Wanting to take the lead in a sectorwide evolution towards sustainability, Walmart
set goals of becoming totally supplied by
renewable energy, having zero waste and selling
products that sustain people and the environment
back in 2005. Over the 2012 fiscal year, Walmart
saved about US$231 million by means of efficient
waste management and recycling; an estimated
US$150 million were saved over 2013 through
renewable energy projects and a zero waste
programme.
Improve Financial and Investment Opportunity
Financial and investment analysts have recognized
companies who have developed sustainability
plans with regards to energy efficiency and
reduction of environmental impact as an
important evaluation criterion.
A Goldman Sachs’ study revealed that companies
in six industries considered leaders in
environmental, social and governance policies
have outperformed the general stock market by
25%, with 72% of the companies outperforming
their peers since August 2005. Another study
based on CFO Research that surveyed 175 top
finance executives, showed that more than half
believe their companies will increase revenue
through strong sustainability initiatives.
8
Authorised Use Only – PUBLIC
Increase Employee Retention and Recruitment
Employees want to work with companies who are
‘doing the right thing’ and being proactive with
corporate environmental and social programs.
A 2007 survey by Adecco, an international HR
company, found that 52% of employed adults feel
their companies should do more about the
environment. More importantly, companies want
their employees to be loyal and ethical to the
organisation. According to a Global Study of
Business Ethics by the American Management
Association, one of the top five internal practices
for ensuring an ethical corporate culture is
developing corporate social responsibility
programmes.
Compliance and Risk Management
Better management of risks that arise from
sustainability issues begins with detecting key
risks of operational disruptions from climate
change, resource scarcity, or community issues
(such as boycotts or delays in getting permits for
manufacturing).
Faced with potential supply constraints, Nestlé,
for example, launched a plan in 2009 that
coordinates activities to promote sustainable
cocoa: producing 12 million stronger and more
productive plants over the next ten (10) years,
teaching local farmers efficient and sustainable
methods, purchasing beans from farms that use
sustainable practices, and working with
organisations to help tackle issues like child labour
and poor access to health care and education.
The mining giant BHP Billiton managed its
exposure to emerging regulations by
systematically reducing its emissions.
Returns on capital
Most companies creating value through
sustainability look first to improving returns on
capital, which often means reducing operating
costs through improved natural-resource
management (such as energy use and waste).
Dow Chemical, for example, reported that it
invested less than US$2 billion since 1994 to
improve its resource efficiency. To date the
company has saved more than US$9.8 billion from
reduced energy consumption and water waste in
its manufacturing processes, even as it continues
to develop innovations.
Source: The business of sustainability: McKinsey Global Survey results
The choice for companies today is not if, but how, they should manage their sustainability activities.
Companies can choose to see this agenda as a necessary evil—a matter of compliance or a risk to be managed
while they get on with the business of business—or they can think of it as a novel way to open up new
business opportunities while creating value for society.
9
Authorised Use Only – PUBLIC
SECTION 2. APPROACH TO INTEGRATING SUSTAINABILITY IN ORGANISATIONS
Embedding sustainable business practices into the DNA of an organisation requires total commitment from
the Board of Directors (or those responsible for governance) and the senior executive team. It is a change
program that should be carefully planned and implemented in measured stages.
The Board of Directors has responsibility for integrating sustainable business practices in the administration,
growth and development of organisations. The key is to set and clarify the corporate strategy, the objectives
and required outcomes from an ESG perspective. The organisation should then engage, enhance and develop
its key resources and relationships to implement its strategy to achieve the sustainable business outcomes.
For companies to balance their financial, social, and environmental risks, obligations and opportunities,
sustainability should move from being an add-on to ‘just the way we do things around here.’
Step by Step Guide
There are various approaches to integrating sustainability. However, what these approaches all have in
common is that they seek to:
 Integrate social, economic, governance and environmental aspects of the business.
 It takes an inclusive approach to stakeholder involvement and empowerment.
 It provides a long term view.
This diagram summarizes the strategic approach to embedding sustainability in a very simple way:
 Identify key issues & drivers – Why is embedding sustainability important to my organisation? What
are the internal and external drivers? What are my organisation’s material relevant sustainability
issues?
 Develop strategy – What does good practice look like for each material issue? What broad strategies
can be implemented to achieve this?
 Establish governance & accountability – Who does what to deliver these broad strategies per
material issue?
 Set targets & action plan – Where do we want to be in ‘x’ number of years? What concrete
actions/activities do we need to achieve the targets? Which of our existing initiatives can we include
to the action plan to help deliver our targets?
 Monitor, report & evaluate – How have we performed so far? Are our processes working?
1. Identify key issues & drivers: It is important to be clear about how sustainable development fits in with
the organisation’s core business, activities and objectives. Clearly understanding this will help companies to
understand several key things, such as:
 Why they should adopt a more proactive approach to integrating sustainability within core business;
 The corresponding risks of not doing so;
 It will give a better understanding of the benefits organisations might achieve.
Identify key
issues & drivers
Develop
strategy
Establish
governance &
accountability
Set targets &
action plan Monitor Report &
evaluate
10
Authorised Use Only – PUBLIC
This process will also need to consider the implications for operations and core activities, whether that is
providing products and services or setting public policy. The issues and drivers for embedding sustainability
will vary according to the context in which a particular organisation operates. But they are likely to follow a
consistent set of themes, which may initially be explored using a simple analysis, for example by using a
method like PESTEL:
 Political – e.g. what are the political expectations on the organisation to embrace sustainability?
 Economic – e.g. what are the economic drivers for sustainability for example in reducing resource
costs?
 Social – e.g. what is the social context in which the organisation operates?
 Technological – e.g. are there technological changes that embedding sustainability might help the
organisation to adapt to?
 Environmental – e.g. how might environmental changes affect the organisation in the future, or the
environmental impacts the organisation has?
 Legislative – what are the regulatory drivers affecting the organisation’s performance.
2. Develop strategy: Developing a sustainability strategy helps to address the issues and build on the drivers
to embed sustainable development in an organisation. Strategy development has a number of key areas. For
example:
 Establishing a central vision and a core set of values or principles.
 Establishing a governance structure and some form of risk assessment and prioritisation process.
 Identifying priorities, setting objectives and establishing the means to deliver them.
 Internal and external stakeholder engagement.
 Accurate documentation of decisions and regular review of strategy.
 Progress on moving towards targets being regularly monitored, evaluated and reported.
In functional terms the strategic process needs to incorporate the following:
 Leadership – developing and encouraging organisational ownership of the vision.
 Action planning – identifying the objectives and how to achieve them.
 Implementation – setting clear objectives with corresponding milestones and deadlines.
 Monitoring, learning and adapting.
 Coordination with other strategy processes and multi-stakeholder participation.
3. Establish governance & accountability: Strong governance and accountability are central to the effective
implementation of a sustainable development strategy, and to embedding sustainability in any organisation.
Good governance is about reaching sound decisions, putting measures in place to implement them and
making clear the individuals and organisational structures accountable for delivery.
An overarching governance system will provide oversight and support consistent delivery across all material
issues. Good governance will have a number of different elements, which will include:
 Defining responsibility and delivery clearly for management.
 Embedding sustainability performance in the organisation’s reporting and appraisal structures e.g.
in staff performance assessments.
 Coordinating management structures across the organisation to ensure that the broad nature of
sustainability issues does not lead to gaps in accountability emerging.
 Operating and managing clear lines of reporting.
11
Authorised Use Only – PUBLIC
4. Set targets & action plan: The production of quantified and time bound sustainability objectives is
important to demonstrate organisational commitments and focus. An organisation should devise an effective
action plan and set specific targets to work towards the sustainable development objectives set out in its
strategy.
5. Monitor, report & evaluate: It is not enough for an organisation to develop a sustainability strategy.
Delivery of the strategy needs to be implemented and regularly monitored. Monitoring progress towards
sustainability objectives, reporting that information openly and evaluating its implications provides a critical
feedback process into decision-making about an organisation’s future activity. Monitoring will be vastly
improved it if is based on clear indicators, and built into strategies to steer processes, track progress, distil
and capture lessons, and signal when a change of direction is necessary. v
12
Authorised Use Only – PUBLIC
SECTION 3. PRINCIPLES AND CORE ELEMENTS
These Guidelines encourage and enable businesses to go beyond compliance and embrace sustainability as
part of their business ethos. The following nine (9) principles and the corresponding core elements
encompass the indicators of what constitutes responsible business conduct. It also delineates the
fundamentals of implementing the Guidelines. The Board of Directors is responsible for incorporating these
principles and Guidelines into the management of organisations.
FOCUS AREA: GOVERNANCE
3.1 Principle 1: Businesses should conduct and govern themselves with Ethics, Transparency and
Accountability.
Core Elements:
1. Businesses should develop governance structures, procedures and practices that ensure ethical conduct
at all levels; and promote the adoption of this principle across its value chain.
2. Businesses should communicate transparently and assure access to information about their decisions
that impact relevant stakeholders.
3. Businesses should not engage in practices that are abusive, corrupt, or anti-competitive.
4. Businesses should truthfully discharge their responsibility on financial and other mandatory disclosures.
5. Businesses should report on the status of their adoption of these Guidelines as suggested in the
reporting recommendations in this document.
6. Businesses should avoid complicity with the actions of any third party that violates any of the principles
contained in these Guidelines.
3.2 Principle 2: Businesses, when engaged in influencing public and regulatory policy, should do so in a
responsible manner.
Core Elements:
1. Businesses, while pursuing policy advocacy, should ensure that their advocacy positions are consistent
with the Principles and Core Elements contained in these Guidelines.
2. To the extent possible, businesses should utilize their trade, commerce and industry chambers
and associations, and other such collective platforms to undertake such policy advocacy.
13
Authorised Use Only – PUBLIC
FOCUS AREA: ECONOMIC
3.3 Principle 3: Businesses should provide products and services that are safe and contribute to
sustainability throughout their life cycle.
Core Elements:
1. Businesses should assure safety and optimal resource use over the life-cycle of their product – from
design to disposal – and ensure that everyone connected with it- designers, producers, value chain
members, customers, consumers and recyclers-are aware of their responsibilities.
2. Businesses should ensure relevant and informative product labelling, appropriate and helpful marketing
communication, full details of contents and composition, and promotion of safe usage and disposal of
their products and services.
3. In designing the product, businesses should ensure that the manufacturing processes and technologies
required to produce it are resource efficient and sustainable.
4. Businesses should regularly review and improve upon the process of new technology development,
deployment and commercialization, incorporating social, ethical, and environmental considerations.
5. Businesses should recognize and respect the rights of people who may be owners of traditional
knowledge, and other forms of intellectual property.
6. Businesses should recognize that over-consumption of resources results in unsustainable exploitation
of our planet's resources, and they should therefore promote sustainable consumption, including
recycling of resources.
7. Responsible procurement practices which addresses transparency, confidentiality, fairness, child labour,
corruption, conflict of interest, support for SME and women owned businesses, forced labour, social
responsibility and Health & Safety should be maintained.
3.4 Principle 4: Businesses should engage with and provide value to their customers and consumers in a
responsible manner.
Core Elements:
1. Businesses, while serving the needs of their customers, should take into account the overall wellbeing of the customers, consumers, and that of society.
2. Businesses should ensure that they do not restrict customers and consumers’ freedom of choice and
free competition in any manner while designing, promoting and selling their products.
14
Authorised Use Only – PUBLIC
3. Businesses should disclose all information truthfully and factually, through relevant and informative
labelling and other means, including the risks to the individual, to society and to the planet from the use
of the products, so that the customers can exercise their freedom to consume in a responsible manner.
Where required, businesses should also educate their customers on the safe and responsible usage of
their products and services.
4. Businesses should promote and advertise their products in ways that do not mislead or confuse the
consumers or violate any of the principles in these Guidelines.
5. Businesses should exercise due care and caution while providing goods and services that result in over
exploitation of natural resources or lead to excessive conspicuous consumption.
6. Businesses should provide adequate grievance handling mechanisms to address customer and
consumer concerns, and feedback.
FOCUS AREA: SOCIAL
3.5 Principle 5: Businesses should promote the wellbeing of all employees.
Core Elements:
1. Businesses should respect the right to freedom of association, participation, collective bargaining, and
provide access to appropriate grievance redress mechanisms.
2. Businesses should provide and maintain equal opportunities at the time of recruitment as well as during
the course of employment irrespective of caste, creed, gender, race, religion, or disability.
3. Businesses should not use child labour, forced labour or any form of involuntary labour, paid or unpaid.
4. Businesses should take cognizance of the work-life balance of its employees, especially that of women.
5. Businesses should provide facilities for the wellbeing of its employees including those with special needs.
They should ensure timely payment of fair living wages to meet basic needs and economic security of
the employees.
6. Businesses should provide a workplace environment that is safe, hygienic humane, and which upholds
the dignity of the employees. Business should communicate this provision to their employees and train
them on a regular basis.
7. Businesses should ensure continuous skill and competence upgrading of all employees by providing
access to necessary learning opportunities, on an equal and non-discriminatory basis. They should
promote employee morale and career development through enlightened human resource
interventions.
15
Authorised Use Only – PUBLIC
8. Businesses should create systems and practices to ensure a harassment free workplace where
employees feel safe and secure in discharging their responsibilities.
3.6 Principle 6: Businesses should respect the interests of, and be responsive towards all stakeholders,
especially those who are disadvantaged, vulnerable and marginalized.
Core Elements:
1. Businesses should systematically identify their stakeholders, understand their concerns, define purpose
and scope of engagement, and commit to engaging with them.
2. Businesses should acknowledge, assume responsibility and be transparent about the impact of their
policies, decisions, product and services, and associated operations on the stakeholders.
3. Businesses should give special attention to stakeholders in areas that are underdeveloped.
4. Businesses should resolve differences with stakeholders in a just, fair and equitable manner.
3.7 Principle 7: Businesses should respect and promote human rights.
Core Elements:
1. Businesses should understand the human rights content of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of
Nigeria, national laws and policies and the content of the International Bill of Human Rights. Businesses
should appreciate that human rights are inherent, universal, indivisible and interdependent in nature.
2. Businesses should integrate respect for human rights in management systems, in particular through
assessing and managing human rights impacts of operations, and ensuring all individuals impacted
by the business have access to grievance mechanisms.
3. Businesses should recognize and respect the human rights of all relevant stakeholders and groups within
and beyond the workplace, including that of communities, consumers and vulnerable and marginalized
groups.
4. Businesses should, within their sphere of influence, promote the awareness and realization of human
rights across their value chain.
5. Businesses should not be complicit with human rights abuses by a third party.
3.8 Principle 8: Businesses should support inclusive growth and equitable development.
Core Elements:
1. Businesses should understand their impact on social and economic development, and respond
through appropriate action to minimize the negative impacts.
16
Authorised Use Only – PUBLIC
2. Businesses should innovate and invest in products, technologies and processes that promote the wellbeing
of society.
3. Businesses should make efforts to complement and support the development priorities at local and
national levels, and assure appropriate resettlement and rehabilitation of communities who have been
displaced owing to their business operations.
4. Businesses operating in regions that are underdeveloped should be especially sensitive to local
concerns.
FOCUS AREA: ENVIRONMENT
3.9 Principle 9: Business should respect, protect, and make efforts to restore the environment.
Core Elements:
1. Businesses should utilize natural and manmade resources in an optimal and responsible manner and
ensure the sustainability of resources by reducing, reusing, recycling and managing waste.
2. Businesses should take measures to check and prevent pollution. They should assess the environmental
damage and bear the cost of pollution abatement with due regard to public interest.
3. Businesses should ensure that benefits arising out of access and commercialization of biological
and other natural resources and associated traditional knowledge are shared equitably.
4. Businesses should continuously seek to improve their environmental performance by adopting
cleaner production methods, promoting use of energy efficient and environment friendly technologies
and use of renewable energy.
5. Businesses should develop Environment Management Systems (EMS) and contingency plans and
processes that help them in preventing, mitigating and controlling environmental damages and
disasters, which may be caused due to their operations or that of a member of their value chain.
6. Businesses should report their environmental performance, including the assessment of potential
environmental risks associated with their operations, to their stakeholders in a fair and transparent
manner.
7. Businesses should proactively persuade and support their value chain to adopt this principle.
17
Authorised Use Only – PUBLIC
SECTION 4. REPORTING REQUIREMENTS
4.1. General Requirements:
All listed companies should ensure that the sustainability report contain information that is relevant and
meaningful to stakeholders. In identifying the material sustainability matters, the listed company should also
consider the themes and guidance provided in internationally accepted standards such as the Global
Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standard. Where multinational companies choose to adopt the reporting format of
their parents, the reports must fully address such companies’ Nigerian operations, and the mattersstipulated
in these Guidelines. The following key areas should be considered:
(a) The overall context on the internal structure, strategy, profile and governance of how the economic,
environmental, social risks and opportunities are managed. While also highlighting how the
organization addresses a specific disclosure theme.
(b) The scope and boundaries of the report. The report could be scoped on the basis of physical
locations of the organisation (geographical boundary); entities within the organisation
(organisational boundary); and operations within the entire value chain.
(c) The material sustainability matters and how they are identified and managed. Materiality are topics
that reflect the organization’s significant economic, environmental, and social impacts, or that
would substantively influence the assessments and decisions of stakeholders.
d) Stakeholder inclusiveness. The organization should identify its stakeholders, and explain how it has
responded to their reasonable expectations and interests.vi
Please note that this Guide is not comprehensive. The Exchange encourages an Issuer to identify and
disclose additional ESG issues that are relevant and material to its business. It may also refer to existing
internationally accepted sustainability reporting guidance such as the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI)
Standards for its relevant industry or sector.
4.2 Reporting Obligations :
(a) All Issuers should comply with the foregoing sustainability reporting requirements.
(b) The Exchange shall publish annually the names of Issuers who submit their sustainability reports in
accordance with these Guidelines;
(c) The Exchange may introduce sustainability ratings and indices, to assess and track the performance
of listed companies who make sustainability disclosures.
4.3. Format of Report
An Issuer may disclose its sustainability information and data in its annual report or in a separate
sustainability report. The reporting period should be in alignment with the same financial period. The
report should be submitted to The Exchange within the period allowed for the submission of annual
accounts.
18
Authorised Use Only – PUBLIC
The report should contain a comprehensive description of the listed company’s management overview
and of economic, environmental, social and governance risks and opportunities. The Issuer should
consider the principles and themes set out in this Sustainability Reporting Guide.
The NSE also encourages reporting companies to consider getting their reports assured or
independently verified against international standards. Assurance of sustainability data increases the
credibility of the report by establishing that the information is accurate.
4.4. Performance Indicators:
Theme Description Principles Indicators/Metrics
Economic
Suppliers
Relations
Management
and Ethics
Operating standards
for purchasing and
the selection of
suppliers.
3 Report on ethical procurement practices which
addresses transparency, confidentiality, fairness,
child labour, corruption, conflict of interest,
support for SME and women owned businesses,
forced labour, social responsibility and Health &
Safety.
Responsible
Products and
Services
Impact of products
and services on
stakeholders.
 3,4 Considers customer satisfaction and relationship,
Transparency in product information & labelling,
Health risk exposure/incidence due to product
usage and Consumer education programmes.
Social
Diversity in
the
Workplace
This refers to
diversity across the
workplace including
at management
level. These can be
categorized along
the dimensions of
gender, age and
physical abilities.
5,6 *Percentage of employee per employee category
in each of the following diversity categories:
- Gender
- Age Group
- Full Time against Contract
*Percentage and ratio of Full Time Employee and
Contract Staff positions held by women.
*Percentage of Board Seats filled by Independents
& women
Labour
practices
Engaging and
inclusive work
environment that
span across
ensuring
employability, skills
development and
fair remuneration.
5 *Average hours of training per annum per
employee by employee category.
* Employee benefits.
* Employee Turnover Rate i.e. the percentage of
Change for FTEs and Contract staff.
*Availability and adherence to a nondiscrimination policy.
19
Authorised Use Only – PUBLIC
Occupational
Health &
Safety
This focuses on
safety, health and
welfare of people
engaged in work or
employment.
5 *Total number of injuries and fatalities relative to
workforce.
*Availability and adherence to policies on
occupational and global health issues.
Human Rights
The rights of
individual as
expressed in the
International Bill for
Human Rights
(comprising the
1948 United Nations
Universal
Declaration of
Human Rights –
UNDHR and the two
International
Covenants on
Human Rights of
1966).
7 *Human rights issues or statement in company’s
Human Resources and Suppliers Policies.
*Number of grievances about human rights
impacts filed, addressed, or resolved.
Society
Company’s impact
on society and local
communities
8 *Details and impact of Corporate Social
Responsibility (CSR)/Community based
programmes.
Governance
Anticorruption
Activities to combat
corruption and
bribery
1, 2 *Report on how the organisation’s adherence to
Bribery/Anti-Corruption Code (BAC).
*Training of employees on the anti-corruption.
*Incidents, fine or exposure related to anticorruption.
Environmental
Product and
Services
Responsibility
The environmental
impact of products
and services in the
course of their
lifecycle, (including
product design,
3,9 *Product innovation to reduce impacts (e.g. ecofriendly, less chemicals/toxic substances etc.).
*Product stewardship (product’s impact on the
environment).
20
Authorised Use Only – PUBLIC
development,
testing, etc.)
Waste
management
Waste includes
hazardous and nonhazardous waste.
9 *Total weight or volume of hazardous waste /
non-hazardous waste generated.
*Ratio of waste to production.
*Recycling initiatives.
Water
Consumption and
efficient use of
water resources.
9 * Total volume of water used.
* Percentage of water recycled.
Energy
Considers the
efficient use and
consumption of
energy as well as
energy generated
from renewable
sources.
9 *Total energy consumption
* Amount of reduction in energy consumption
achieved as a result of conservation and efficiency
initiatives
* Alternative energy research (e.g. wind, biomass,
solar, clean fuels) (investment amount and plans).
* Use of renewable energy (MWh)
Compliance Adherence of
activities to relevant
environmental laws.
9 *Total monetary value of fines for non-compliance
to environmental laws and regulations.
