SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
RULES AND REGULATIONS, 2013

PART F – ACCOUNTABILITY AND REPORTING
34. Disclosures
34.1. In order to foster good corporate governance companies should engage in increased disclosure in
Nigeria beyond the statutory requirements in the CAMA.
429
SEC Rules; June 2013
34.2. The CEO and the Head of Finance Function of every public company should in a written
statement to the Board certify that the financial statements present a true and fair view of the affairs of
the company.
34.3. The Board of a public company should ensure that the company’s annual report contains
information on the company’s capital structure as follows:-
 (a) details of issuance of share capital during the year;
 (b) borrowings and maturity dates;
 (c) details and reasons for share buybacks during the year; and
(d) details of directors’ and substantial shareholders’ interests in the company and subsidiaries or
associated companies.
34.4. The Board of a public company should ensure that the company’s annual report includes a
corporate governance report that conveys clear information on the strength of the company’s
governance structures, policies and practices to stakeholders. The report should include the following:
(a) composition of Board of directors as set out in section 4 of this Code stating names of
chairman, the CEO/MD, executive and non-executive directors as well as independent
directors;
(b) the roles and responsibilities of the board setting out matters which are reserved for the
board and those delegated to management;
(c) board appointment process including induction and training of board members;
(d) evaluation process and summary of evaluation results for the board as whole, its
committees and each individual director;
(e) directors standing for re-election and their biographical details to enable shareholders make
informed decisions about their re-election;
(f) composition of board committees including names of chairmen and members of each
committee;
(g) description of the roles and responsibilities of the board committees and how the
committees have discharged those responsibilities
(h) the number of meetings of the board and the committees held during the year and the
attendance of individual directors at those meetings;
(i) disclosure of the code of business conduct and ethics, if any, for directors and employees;
(j) human resource policies, internal management structure, relations with employees,
employee share- ownership schemes and other workplace development initiatives,
(k) company’s sustainability policies and programmes covering issues such as corruption,
community service, environmental protection, HIV/AIDs and general corporate social
responsibility issues;
430
SEC Rules; June 2013
34.5. In addition to the foregoing, the board of every public company should ensure that the
company’s annual report make sufficient disclosure on accounting and risk management issues. In
particular, the following matters shall disclosed:
(a) a statement of the director’s responsibilities in connection with the preparation of the
financial statements;
(b) details of accounting policies utilized and reasons for changes in accounting policies;
(c) where the accounting policies applied do not conform to standard practice, the external auditor
should express an opinion on whether they agreed with the departure and the reasons for such
departure;
(d) a statement from the directors that the business is a going concern, with supporting assumptions or
qualifications where necessary;
(e) executive directors’ remuneration and share options;
(f) non-executive directors fees and allowances and share options, if any;
(g) risk management as outlined in Part E of the Code indicating the board’s responsibility for the
total process of risk management as well as its opinion on the effectiveness of the process;
34.6. The Chairman’s statement in the annual report should provide a balanced and readable summary
of the company’s performance for the period under review and future prospects and should reflect the
collective view of the Board.
34.7. The annual report should contain a statement from the Board with regards to the company’s
degree of compliance with the provisions of this Code. In particular it should provide:-
(a) assurances that effective internal audit function exists in the company and that risk management
control and compliance system are operating efficiently and effectively in all respects;
(b) justification where the Board does not accept the audit committee’s recommendation on the
appointment, reappointment or removal of an external auditor; explaining the recommendation and the
reasons for the Board decision;
(c) statement on sustainability initiatives as set out in part D of the Code;
(d) related party transactions;
(e) the nature of the related party relationships and transactions as well as information about the
transactions necessary to understand the potential effect of the relationship on the financial statements.
34.8. All public companies should disclose details of director’s interest in contracts either directly or
indirectly with the company or its subsidiaries or holding companies. The details should include the
name of the director, the nature and details of the contract and the director’s interest therein. Provided
that the disclosures required here do not include directors’ service contracts or contracts between the
company and another company where the directors interest is by virtue of being a director of that
other company.
431
SEC Rules; June 2013
34.9. All public companies should disclose any service contracts and other significant contracts with
controlling shareholder(s).
34.10. Disclosures on related party transactions relating to directors’ current account or loans should
include the following:
(a) the amount of the transactions;
(b) the amount of outstanding balances at the beginning and at the end of the financial year
including their terms and conditions of the loans and details of any guarantees given or
received;
(c) the amount of principal and interest which has fallen due and has not been paid and the
amount of provisions for doubtful debts related to the amount of outstanding balances;
(d) the expense recognized during the period in respect of bad or doubtful debts due from
related parties; and
(e) A statement whether the transaction was conducted at arm’s length.
34.11. The disclosures required to be made for related party transaction shall be made separately for
each of the following categories:
 (a) the parent;
 (b) entities with joint control or significant influence over the entity;
 (c) subsidiaries;
 (d) associates;
 (e) joint ventures in which the entity is a partner;
 (f) key management personnel of the entity or its parent; and
 (g) other related parties.
34.12. Items of a similar nature may be disclosed in aggregate except where separate disclosure is
necessary for an understanding of the effects of related party transactions on the financial statements
of the company.
34.13. The Board should use its best judgment to disclose any matter though not specifically required
in this code to be disclosed if in the opinion of the Board such matter is capable of affecting in a
significant form the financial condition of the company or its status as a going concern.
34.14. All public companies should state in their annual reports how they have applied this Code and
the extent of their compliance.
34.15. In evaluating and reporting on the extent of compliance with this Code, the board may engage
independent experts. Where such is done, the name of the consultant should be disclosed. A summary
of the report and conclusions of the consultant shall be included in the company’s annual report. 