Companies and Allied Matters Act, 2020 2020 No. 3 A 219
DIRECTORS’ REPORTS
305.—(1) A director of a company stands in a fiduciary relationship
towards the company and shall observe utmost good faith towards the company
in any transaction with it or on its behalf.
(2) A director owes fiduciary relationship with the company where—
(a) a director is acting as agent of a particular shareholder ; or
(b) though, he is not an agent of any shareholder, such a shareholder or
other person is dealing with the company’s securities.
(3) A director shall act at all times in what he believes to be the best
interests of the company as a whole so as to preserve its assets, further its
business, and promote the purposes for which it was formed, and in such
manner as a faithful, diligent, careful and ordinarily skilful director would act
in the circumstances and, in doing so, shall have regard to the impact of the
company’s operations on the environment in the community where it carries
on business operations.
(4) The matters to which a director of a company is to have regard in the
performance of his functions include the interests of the company’s employees
in general, as well as the interests of its members.
(5) A director shall exercise his powers for the purpose for which he is
specified and shall not do so for a collateral purpose, and the power, if exercised
for the right purpose, does not constitute a breach of duty, if it, incidentally,
affects a member adversely.
(6) A director shall not fetter his discretion to vote in a particular way.
(7) Where a director is allowed to delegate his powers under any provision
of this Act, such a director shall not delegate the power in such a way and
manner as may amount to an abdication of duty.
Duties of
directors.
Companies and Allied Matters Act, 2020 2020 No. 3 A 179
(8) No provision, whether contained in the articles, resolutions of a
company, or any contract, shall relieve any director from the duty to act in
accordance with this section or relieve him from any liability incurred as a
result of any breach of the duties conferred upon him under this section.
(9) Any duty imposed on a director under this section is enforceable
against a director by the company.

385.—(1) In the case of every company, there shall be prepared in
respect of each year, a report by the directors—
(a) containing a fair view of the development of the business of the
company and its subsidiaries during the year and of their position at the end
of it ; and
(b) stating the amount, if any, which they recommend should be paid as
dividend and the amount (if any) which they propose to carry to reserves.
(2) The directors’ report shall state the names of the persons who, at
any time during the year, were directors of the company, and the financial
activities of the company and its subsidiaries in the course of the year and any
significant change in those activities in the year.
(3) The report shall also state the matters, and give the particulars, required
by Part I of the Fourth Schedule to this Act.
(4) Part II of the Fourth Schedule to this Act applies as regards the matters
to be stated in the report of the directors in the circumstances specified therein.
(5) Part III of the Fourth Schedule to this Act applies as regards the
matters to be stated in the directors’ report relative to the employment, training
and advancement of disabled persons, the health, safety and welfare at work
of the employees of the company and the involvement of employees in the
affairs, policy and performance of the company.
(6) In respect of any failure to comply with the requirements of this Act
as to the matters to be stated and the particulars to be given in the directors’
report, every person who was a director of the company immediately before
the end of the period prescribed for laying and delivering financial statements
commits an offence and is liable on conviction to a penalty as the Commission
shall specify in its regulations.
(7) In proceedings for ascertaining guilt under subsection (6), it is a
defence for the person to prove that he took all reasonable steps for securing
compliance with the requirements in question.

FOURTH SCHEDULE
 Sections 385 and 398 (5)
MATTERS TO BE DEALT WITH IN DIRECTORS’ REPORT
PART I—MATTERS OF A GENERAL NATURE ASSET VALUES
1.—(1) If significant changes in the fixed assets of the company or of
any of its subsidiaries have occurred in the financial year, the report shall
contain particulars of the changes.
(2) If, in the case of such assets which consist of interests in land, their
market value (as at the end of the year) differs substantially, from the amount
at which they are included in the balance sheet, and the difference is, in the
directors’ opinion, of such significance as to require that the attention of
members of the company or of holders of its debentures should be drawn to it,
the report shall indicate the difference with such degree of precision as is
practicable.
Directors’ Interests
2.—(1) The report shall state, with respect to each person who, at the
end of the year, was a director of the company—
(a) whether or not, according to the register kept by the company for the
purposes of sections 302 and 303 of this Act (director’s obligation to notify
his interests in the company and companies in the same group), he was at
the end of that year interested in shares in, or debentures of, the company
or any other body corporate, being the company’s subsidiary or holding
company or a subsidiary of the company’s holding company ;
(b) if he was so interested—
(i) the number and amount of shares in, and debentures of, each body
(specifying it) in which, according to that register, he was then interested,
(ii) whether or not (according to that register) he was, at the beginning
of that year or, if he was not then a director, when he became one,
interested in shares in, or debentures of, the company or any other such
body corporate, and
(iii) if he was, the number and amount of shares in and debentures of,
each body (specifying it) in which, according to that register, he was
interested at the beginning of the year or (as the case may be) when he
became a director.
(2) An interest in shares or debentures which, under sections 302 and
303 of this Act, falls to be treated as being the interest of a director is so
treated for the purposes of this paragraph, and the references above to the
Companies and Allied Matters Act, 2020 2020 No. 3 A 497
time when a person became a director, in the case of a person who became
director on more than one occasion, is the time when he first became a director.
(3) The particulars required by this paragraph may be given by way of
notes to the company’s accounts in respect of the year, instead of being stated
in the directors’ report.
Charitable Gifts
3.—(1) Money given for charitable purposes to a person who, when it
was given, was ordinarily resident outside Nigeria is to be left out of the
account.
(2) For the purpose of subparagraph (1),”Charitable purposes” means
purposes which are exclusively charitable.
Miscellaneous
4. The directors’ report shall contain—
(a) particulars of any important event affecting the company or any of
its subsidiaries which have occurred since the end of the year ;
(b) an indication of likely future developments in the business of the
company and of its subsidiaries ;
(c) an indication of the activities (if any) of the company and its
subsidiaries in the field of research and development ;
(d) names of distributors of the company’s products ; and
(e) particulars of donations and gifts made for any purpose.
PART II—DISCLOSURE REQUIRED BY COMPANY ACQUIRING ITS OWN SHARES
5. This Part of this Schedule applies where shares in a company are—
(a) purchased by the company or are acquired by it by forfeiture or
surrender in lieu of forfeiture, or in pursuance of section 184 of this Act
(acquisition of own shares by company limited by shares) ;
(b) required by another person in circumstances where section 183 (3)
(b) or (c) of this Act applies (acquisition by company’s nominee, or by
another with company financial assistance, the company having a beneficial
interest); or
(c) made subject to a lien or other charges taken (whether expressly or
otherwise) by the company and permitted by section 164 (1) or (4) of this
Act.
A 498 2020 No. 3 Companies and Allied Matters Act, 2020
6. The directors’ report with respect to a year shall state—
(a) the number and nominal value of the shares so purchased, the
aggregate amount of the consideration paid by the company for such shares
and the reasons for their purchase ;
(b) the number and nominal value of the shares so acquired by the
company, acquired by another person in such circumstances and so charged
respectively during the year ;
(c) the maximum number and nominal value of shares which, having
been so acquired by the company, acquired by another person in such
circumstances or so charged (whether or not during that year) are held at
any time by the company or that other person during the year ;
(d) where the number and nominal value of the shares of any particular
description are stated in pursuance of any of the preceding sub-paragraphs,
the percentage of the called up share which shares of that description
represent ;
(e) where any of the shares has been so charged, the amount of the
charge in each case ;
(f ) where any of the shares has been disposed of by the company or the
person who acquired them in such circumstances for money or money’s
worth, the amount or value of the consideration in each case ; and
(g) the excess of the selling price over the purchase price of each share
resold or the excess of the cost over the selling price which was taken to
capital reserve.
PART III—EMPLOYMENT AND EMPLOYEES
Employment of Disabled Persons
7. The directors’ report shall contain a statement showing how many
disabled persons were employed during the year and describing the policy
which the company has applied during the year—
(a) for giving full and fair consideration to applications for employment
by the company made by disabled persons, having regard to their particular
aptitudes and abilities ;
(b) for continuing the employment of, and for arranging appropriate
training for, employees of the company who have become disabled persons
during the period when they were employed by the company ; and
(c) otherwise for the training, career development and promotion of
disabled persons employed by the company.
Companies and Allied Matters Act, 2020 2020 No. 3 A 499
Health, Safety and Welfare at work of Company’s Employees
8. The directors’ report shall contain a statement as to the arrangement
in force in the year for securing the health, safety and welfare at work of
employees of the company and its subsidiaries, and for protecting other persons
against risks to health or safety arising out of or in connection with the activities
at work of those employees.
Employee Involvement and Training
9. The directors’ report shall contain a statement describing the action
that has been taken during the year to introduce, maintain or develop
arrangements aimed at—
(a) providing employees systematically with information on matters of
concern to them as employees ;
(b) consulting employees or their representatives on a regular basis so
that the views of employees can be taken into account in making decisions
which are likely to affect their interests ;
(c) encouraging the involvement of employees in the company’s performance
through an employees’ share scheme or by some other means ;
(d) achieving a common awareness on the part of all employees of
the financial and economic factors affecting the performance of the
company ; and
(e) showing the arrangements made or facilities provided by the company
for the training of employees during the year.