ESG Reporting Guidelines
Guide for issuers
May 2021
ESG R
epo
rtin
g Guid
elines
2


Contents
Abbreviations and acronyms 6
Part 1 What is ESG and why should a company report on it? 7
1 Introduction 8
1.1. Background 8
1.2. Purpose of the Guidelines 8
1.3. Evolution of ESG reporting in Poland 8
1.4. Regulatory context 9
1.4.1. Poland 9
1.4.2. EU sustainable finance regulatory framework 11
2 ESG – what it is and why it matters 13
2.1. ESG and sustainability 13
2.2. The business case for ESG 14
2.3. Attracting capital - ESG in the financial sector 15
2.4. Increasing regulatory and societal pressure 15
3 ESG Reporting – key considerations 17
3.1. Reporting formats 17
3.2. Reporting standards and frameworks 18
3.3. The importance of decision-useful climate reporting 18
Part 2 How can a company report on ESG? 20
4 Key characteristics of investor-oriented ESG reporting 21
5 Step-by-step approach to report on ESG 22
5.1. Materiality: What is relevant to investors and other stakeholders? 23
5.2. Assess whether and how you comply with minimum safeguards 24
5.3. Indicators selection process 24
5.3.1. Minimum disclosures (indicators in blue) 25
5.3.2. Sector-specific disclosures (indicators in green) 26
6 Metrics for ESG reporting 28
6.1. Green revenue in line with the EU Taxonomy 28
6.2. Sustainability governance 29
6.3. Environmental indicators 30
6.4. Social indicators 36
6.5. Governance indicators 41
Part 3 Annexes 46
Annex A: Main international reporting Guidelines and frameworks 47
Annex B: EU regulations 48
Annex C: Reference list 49
Annex D: Relevance to investors of the ESG Reporting Guidelines 50
ESG Reporting Guidelines 6
Abbreviations and acronyms
CAPEX Capital expenditures NFRD Non-Financial Reporting Directive
CDSB Climate Disclosure Standards Board OECD Organisation for Economic Co-operation and
Development
CEE Central Eastern Europe OPEX Operational expenditures
CO2 Carbon dioxide PRI Principles for Responsible Investment
CO2 e Carbon dioxide equivalent SASB Sustainability Accounting Standards Board
CSR Corporate Social Responsibility SDGs Sustainable Development Goals
CSRD Corporate Sustainability Reporting
Directive SEC U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
DPSN2021 Dobre Praktyki Spółek Notowanych na
GPW 2021 SFDR Sustainability Finance Disclosure Regulation
EBRD European Bank for Reconstruction and
Development SME Small Medium Enterprises
ESG Environmental, Social and Governance SSE Sustainable Stock Exchanges
EU European Union TCFD Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures
EU-ETS European Union Emissions Trading
System TSC Technical screening criteria
GHG Greenhouse gases WEF World Economic Forum
GRI Global Reporting Initiative WSE / GPW Warsaw Stock Exchange
IIRC International Integrated Reporting
Council
Part 1
What is ESG and why
should a company
report on it?
ESG Reporting Guidelines 8
1.1. Background
The international business community is increasingly addressing
environmental, social and governance issues to meet sustainability
challenges. This is in part driven by changing shareholder
demands, a broader shift among capital providers, regulation,
societal debates and reputational concerns. However, it is also
driven by new business opportunities that are emerging, such as
alternative product and market combinations, better access to
talent and anticipation of changes in consumer behaviours.
The sustainability agenda is gaining momentum in Poland as
well. The introduction of the European Union (EU) Non-Financial
Reporting Directive (NFRD) and its transposition into Polish law in
2017 has further increased companies’ awareness. However, while
an increasing number of companies are defining their business
case for ESG reporting, the breadth, depth, and consistency of
reported information varies.
These Guidelines are the result of an extensive, collaborative
process. They are tailored to the specific needs of the Polish
capital market and business community. There is a consensus
that ESG reporting is part of a broader drive towards a more
sustainable economy. To inform their investment decisions,
investors are looking for robust data on long term value creation
as well as short term material ESG risks. They want companies
to be responsible and accountable as they increasingly recognise
that effective ESG management of companies is a reflection of
operational excellence. An ESG report is by no means a standalone product. Consistent and effective ESG reporting helps
build the sustainability profile of the company. The sustainability
business case that drives operational choices and target-setting
across functions is a process of continuous improvement that
is reflected in ESG reporting. By providing these Guidelines on
sustainability reporting, WSE joins a group of 56 stock exchanges
globally that have published ESG reporting guidance for their listed
companies.1
1.2. Purpose of the Guidelines
These Guidelines are not a new standard, they do not replace
legal obligations, nor do they introduce new indicators. Rather the
Guidelines as presented in this document aim to help companies
listed on the Polish stock exchange enhance their ESG reporting
practices. It is a roadmap based on international references such
as the NFRD, the Sustainable Finance Disclosure Regulation
(SFDR) and the Taxonomy Regulation at the EU level, and the
Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosure (TCFD)
recommendations at the global level.
These Guidelines aim to contribute to better, more consistent,
comparable and reliable sustainability reporting in a way that
meets local and global market needs. It is a roadmap that builds
on internationally accepted reporting metrics and provides
companies with a practical tool for setting up a focused reporting
capacity. Companies that have little or no experience in ESG
reporting will appreciate the support and guidance that these
Guidelines offer. Yet, companies that are more advanced in ESG
reporting may use these Guidelines to confirm that their reporting
matches international best practice. These Guidelines could be
used as a reference for non-listed companies.
On a macro-level, these Guidelines will further strengthen the Polish
capital markets and the business community in a global perspective.
International investors are demanding more clarity from companies
on their ESG performance. The dialogue between investors and
companies will intensify and the quality of ESG reporting will impact
the access to capital to a greater extent. Thus, these Guidelines will
inform the transition towards a more sustainable economy and raise
the investment’s attractiveness of the region.
These Guidelines cover the why, what and how of ESG reporting.
However, ESG reporting is a complex topic and there is no
one-size-fits-all approach. By developing their business case
and understanding the needs of their stakeholders, companies,
regardless of their maturity in ESG reporting, must navigate this
complex territory and find solutions that work for them also in
view of their activity and business model. WSE is offering training
materials that will support its clients and other companies in raising
the quality of their ESG reporting, thus making ESG disclosure an
opportunity for issuers and other companies.
1.3. Evolution of ESG reporting in
Poland
ESG reporting in Poland is not a novel concept. Many companies
have been publishing sustainability reports for many years.
The chart below (Figure 1) summarises how the concept of
sustainability reporting has evolved over time in line with emerging
regulations and companies’ increasing awareness of ESG risks
1 Introduction
1 56 of the 103 Stock Exchanges tracked by the Sustainable Stock Exchange Initiative, https://sseinitiative.org/esg-disclosure
[last checked on April 21st 2021]
ESG Reporting Guidelines 9
and opportunities.
The transposition of the Non-Financial Reporting Directive into
Polish law was a tipping point for sustainability reporting in Poland
and had a positive impact on the availability of ESG data published
by the companies. It is worth highlighting, that following the
introduction of NFRD, a local reporting standard - the Non-financial
Information Standard (SIN) was developed to help companies
fulfil reporting obligations instituted by the NFRD.2
 The initiative
was coordinated by the Fundacja Standardów Raportowania and
Polish Association of Listed Companies.
In parallel, Warsaw Stock Exchange has been promoting
transparency in the Polish capital market and encouraging
companies to consistently improve sustainability reporting, not
least through the introduction of the RESPECT Index in 2009 – the
first sustainability index in the Central and Eastern (CEE) region.
The index was subsequently replaced by the WIG-ESG index,
which became an underlying instrument for exchange-traded
products.
1.4. Regulatory context
The Guidelines are aligned with the current EU and Polish
legislation.
1.4.1. Poland
The Non-Financial Reporting Directive (Accounting Act)
The main policy document governing the disclosure of ESG
information in Poland is the Accounting Act transposing the
provisions of the EU Non-financial Reporting Directive (Directive
2014/95/EU).3
 Accordingly, large public interest entities that
have more than 500 employees and meet at least one of two
specific criteria related to total balance sheet and net turnover
are required to disclose material ESG information as part of their
annual reporting. Disclosure should be done with respect to four
sustainability areas: environment, social and employee issues,
human rights and bribery and corruption. It should cover relevant
policies, risk management processes and KPIs and the description
of the company business model.
Companies have the option to disclose required ESG information
either as part of the Management Report (in which case it should
Launch
of the
RESPECT
index
Launch
of the
WIG-ESG
index
Revision
of the corporate
governance
principles
2017
2018
2019
2009 2020
Revision
of the corporate
governance
principles
2016
Transposition
of NFRD
into the
Polish law
Publication
of SIN
CSR ERA
— disclosure focused on good
practices
— no clear link between sustainability
efforts and business strategy
— ESG risks and opportunities rarely
addressed
— limited reporting on climate-related
matters
— lack of visible progress over time
EMERGENCE OF ESG REPORTING
— integration of ESG considerations
into business strategy and financial
planning
— reporting on climate change
improving
— more quantitative ESG metrics
disclosed
TRANSITION PERIOD
Companies in scope of the NFRD had to
report non-financial information for the
first time in 2018
Figure 1 Evolution of sustainability reporting in Poland
2 Non-financial Information Standard consists of the main document and five supplementary annexes. They can be downloaded at:
https://standardy.org.pl/sin/ or https://www.seg.org.pl/pl/standard-informacji-niefinansowych-sin
3 Official Journal of the European Union. Directive 2014/95/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 22 October 2014 amending Directive
2013/34/EU as regards disclosure of non-financial and diversity information by certain large undertakings and groups (Publ. 15 November 2014).
https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A32014L0095
ESG Reporting Guidelines 10
be called “Oświadczenie na temat informacji niefinansowych”)
or as a stand-alone non-financial information statement
(“Sprawozdanie na temat informacji niefinansowych”). In the latter
case, the statement can also be in the form of a sustainability
report.
As shown in the Figure 2, NFRD has also introduced additional
disclosure obligations for diversity issues. These have been
regulated by the Regulation of the Minister of Finance (from May
25th, 2016) on current and periodic disclosures. Accordingly, large
listed companies that meet at least two of three specific criteria
related to number of employees, total balance sheet or turnover
should provide information on their diversity policy in relation to
the management and supervisory bodies. Disclosures should be
made in the corporate governance statement (“Oświadczenie o
stosowaniu zasad ładu korporacyjnego”).
If the company does not have a policy for diversity issues or other
sustainability aspects specified in the NFRD, it should disclose
this fact in accordance with the comply or explain principle.
Companies required by the directive to prepare a non-financial
information statement are obliged to disclose information on their
business model, principal risks and KPIs even in the absence of
relevant policies.
Non-binding guidelines supplementing NFRD
To guide corporate ESG disclosure, the European Commission has
published two non-binding documents supplementing the NFRD:
— Guidelines on non-financial reporting (2017)5
— Guidelines on non-financial reporting: Supplement on reporting
climate-related information (2019)6
 integrating the TCFD
recommendations
Companies should consult those guidelines as part of their ESG
disclosure process.
To help companies comply with the
NFRD disclosure obligations, indicators
outlined in Part 2 of the Guidelines have
been aligned with the sustainability topics
specified in the directive. They also
consider the supplementary non-binding
Guidelines on Reporting Climate-related
Information, which integrate the TCFD
recommendations.
Figure 2 Transposition of the Non-Financial Reporting Directive4
DISCLOSURE OBLIGATIONS UNDER NFRD
NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENT DIVERSITY POLICY
WHO
> 500 employees
Meets one of the following criteria:
+
Meets one of the following criteria: > 250 employees
total balance sheet > PLN 85 mln total balance sheet > PLN 85 mln
net turnover > PLN 170 mln net turnover > PLN 170 mln
WHAT
— Business model
— Principal risks (incl. due diligence)
— Policies regarding: environmental, social and employee
matters, human rights, and bribery and corruption
— KPIs
— Diversity policy with respect to the governing bodies
covering aspects such as: age, gender, geographical
diversity as well as educational and professional
background
WHERE
Management report or separate document Corporate governance statement
4 Please note that the criteria may vary for the capital groups
5 Official Journal of the European Union. Communication from the Commission — Guidelines on non-financial reporting (methodology for reporting
non-financial information) C/2017/4234 (Publ. 5 July 2019). https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX:52017XC0705(01)
6 Official Journal of the European Union. Communication from the Commission — Guidelines on non-financial reporting: Supplement on reporting
climate-related information C/2019/4490 (Publ. 20 June 2019). https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A52019XC0620%2801%29
ESG Reporting Guidelines 11
Corporate governance principles for companies listed on
WSE
Another important document that concerns companies listed on
WSE and recommends disclosure of certain ESG information is
the amended “Good Practices of Companies Listed on the WSE
2021” („Dobre Praktyki Spółek Notowanych na GPW 2021” or
DPSN2021).7
 The code, which is in force since 2002, outlines a list
of corporate governance principles for companies to observe, in
line with the comply or explain principle.
With respect to the ESG information, Section 1.3 and 1.4 of the
DPSN2021 recommend companies to consider ESG issues as
part of the business strategy and planning and provide disclosure
especially on climate-related risks and related KPIs. Companies
should also disclose the employee pay gap ratio and inform
whether actions have been taken to eliminate gender inequalities.
The indicators outlined in Part 2 of the
Guidelines are aligned with the amended
corporate governance principles for
diversity and broader sustainability issues
mentioned above.
1.4.2. EU sustainable finance regulatory
framework
In recent years the European Commission has adopted new
strategies and regulations to address climate and broader
sustainability risks and opportunities. They include the revision of
the NFRD as well as the EU Taxonomy Regulation and the SFDR
(Taxonomy Regulation: Regulation 2020/8528
; SFDR: Regulation
2019/2088). The first two will have a direct implication for the
companies’ ESG reporting obligations. The SFDR targets financial
market participants. However, it will affect companies through
increased investor demand for detailed ESG disclosure. See Annex
B for a comprehensive overview of regulatory frameworks for ESG
disclosure at EU level.
Corporate Sustainability Reporting Directive
The NFRD is currently being revised by the European Commission
to enhance the consistency of sustainability reporting requirements
with the broader legal framework on sustainable finance (see
Annex C) including the SFDR and the Taxonomy regulation. In April
2021, the European Commission published a legislative proposal
for a Corporate Sustainability Reporting Directive (CSRD) that
should apply to companies for the financial years starting on or
after 1 January 2023, assuming agreement between EU Member
States and the European Parliament during the first half of 2022.9
The Commission proposes to:
— Extend the scope of the reporting requirements to all
large companies and to all companies (including non-EU
companies) with securities listed on EU regulated markets
(except listed micro-companies). Listed SMEs will be subject
to a 3-year phase-in and a simpler reporting regime.
— Detail the information companies should publish in their
management reports and require them to report on strategy,
targets, indicators, the role of the board and management,
its principal adverse impacts, intangibles, and the process for
identifying the information that has to be reported. Companies
under scope would be required to use EU sustainability
reporting standards. The first set of standards (to be adopted
by the Commission by October 2022) will cover information
about sustainability factors and reporting areas. By October
2023, a second set of standards should detail complementary
information and provide details on required sector-specific
reporting. The CSRD will embrace the concept of double
materiality (see 5.1) in its reporting approach.
— Align the Sustainability Reporting Standards with other
mandatory EU sustainability reporting standards such as the
EU Taxonomy and the SFDR.
— Facilitate digitalisation by requiring companies to prepare
financial statements and management report in a single
electronic reporting and machine-readable format (digital
tagging).
— Require and facilitate external assurance of the
companies’ sustainability reporting.
The proposal for revision of the NFRD and the upcoming
delegated acts due in 2022 and 2023 demonstrate that the
requirements and expectations for ESG reporting are developing
and the EU legislative framework is progressing accordingly.
EU Taxonomy
The EU Taxonomy is a classification system to define
environmentally sustainable activities. It imposes certain disclosure
obligations for financial market participants under the scope of
the SFDR and companies under the scope of the NFRD. These
disclosure obligations will apply to companies for two of the six
environmentally sustainable economic activities from January 1st
2022, and for all six from January 1st 2023.
— The EU Taxonomy requires companies such as large public
interest entities as defined by the NFRD, to disclose whether
and to what extent their economic activities are aligned with
the EU Taxonomy. Companies must disclose the proportion of
their turnover, capital expenditures (CAPEX) and operational
expenditures (OPEX) that are aligned with the EU Taxonomy.
7 Warsaw Stock Exchange. Good Practices of Companies Listed on the WSE 2021 / Dobre Praktyki Spółek Notowanych na GPW 2021 (DPSN2021). (Publ.
2021). https://www.gpw.pl/pub/GPW/pdf/Uch_13_1834_2021_DPSN2021.pdf
8 Official Journal of the European Union. Regulation (EU) 2020/852 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 18 June 2020 on the establishment of a
framework to facilitate sustainable investment, and amending Regulation (EU) 2019/2088 (Publ. 18 June 2020).
https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX:32020R0852
9 Proposal for a Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council. Amending Directive 2013/34/EU, Directive 2004/109/EC, Directive 2006/43/EC and
Regulation (EU) No 537/2014, as regards corporate sustainability reporting (Publ. 21 April 2021)
https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX:52021PC0189
ESG Reporting Guidelines 12
— The EU Taxonomy requires financial market participants
offering “environmental” or “sustainable” financial products
and services in the EU to disclosure how and to what extent
the economic activities are in line with the EU Taxonomy. This
includes the type of environmental objectives it contributes to
and the share of investments (such as turnover, CAPEX and
OPEX) associated with Taxonomy-aligned activities.
The Technical screening criteria (“TSC”) explain what it means
to contribute or harm one of the environmental objectives. To
be aligned with the EU Taxonomy, companies will have to follow
the three-fold assessment as shown in Figure 3. Consequently,
they should disclose whether they substantially contribute to at
least one of the six environmental objectives, that they do not
significantly harm any other and whether and to what extent they
comply with the minimum safeguards. This assessment will allow
companies to report on the financial metrics mentioned above
(turnover, CAPEX, OPEX).
The indicators outlined in Part 2 of the
Guidelines have been selected to help
companies towards compliance with
the Taxonomy regulations on minimum
safeguards. Additionally, and in line with
the EU Taxonomy (article 8), a “green
revenue indicator” has been included for
companies to disclose whether and to what
extent their economic activities qualify
as environmentally sustainable under the
regulation.
Sustainable Finance Disclosure Regulation (SFDR)
The SFDR aims to prevent greenwashing and increase market
transparency for financial market participants and financial
advisers.10 It introduces a set of disclosure requirements around
integration of ESG risks in the investment processes, which are
legally binding since March 2021.
The SFDR entails two levels of disclosure for both financial market
participants11 and financial advisers:
— The firm level: disclosure on the principal adverse impact and
sustainability risk as well as the firm’s remuneration policy (on
the firm’s website)
— The product level: disclosure on the products principal adverse
impacts, sustainability risks (in pre-contractual disclosures and
in periodic reports for financial market participants only)
Although the SFDR does not apply to non-financial companies, it
will impact them due to new reporting requirements from financial
market participants.
Figure 3 Methodology assessment of the EU Taxonomy
Climate change mitigation
Climate change adaptation
Sustainable use and protection of water and marine resources
Transition to a circular economy
Pollution prevention and control
Protection and restoration of biodiversity and ecosystems
1
2
3
4
5
6
TO BE ALIGNED WITH THE EU TAXONOMY, AN ECONOMIC ACTIVITY MUST:
Substantially contribute
to at least one of the
six environmental objectives
Do no significant harm
to any other objective
Comply with
Minimum Safeguards
10 Official Journal of the European Union. Regulation (EU) 2019/2088 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 November 2019 on sustainability
related disclosures in the financial services sector (publ. 27 November 2019).
https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/PDF/?uri=CELEX:32019R2088&from=EN
11 Financial market participants are defined in Article 2 of the SFDR
ESG Reporting Guidelines 13
2 ESG – what it is and why it matters
It is in every company’s interest to adequately address
environmental, social, and governance risks and opportunities.
Material ESG risks just like any other corporate risks may become
important and even detrimental to the company. The costs to
repair damages can be higher than preventative measures and
proactive ESG risk management. Evidence shows that companies
that fully integrate ESG, that are accountable to stakeholders
and transparent, are better positioned for long-term success.
The financial sector is mainstreaming ESG, and its integration in
finance is expected to accelerate further. This chapter provides an
overview of how ESG affects issuers and other companies.
2.1. ESG and sustainability
While the term ESG is commonly used among investors, the
term sustainability is more common among companies. Although
subtle nuances exist, for the purpose of these Guidelines, both
terms are seen as encompassing the broad set of environmental,
social and governance considerations. The term Corporate Social
Responsibility (CSR) has been avoided as it is often interpreted
to only cover aspects of the social dimension and be related to
philanthropic activities.
Environmental, social, and corporate governance criteria are
often used by investors to screen potential investments. These
three criteria are essential in measuring the sustainability and
societal impact of a company. Environmental factors include
the contribution a company makes to climate change through
greenhouse gas emissions, along with waste management, energy
efficiency and the eventual impact on the natural environment and
the biodiversity.
Social factors refer to how humans are affected by a company and
its activities – as employees, clients, suppliers, and communities –
and how humans and society in turn may affect the company. This
includes but is not limited to labour relations, health and safety,
diversity and inclusion matters, and fundamental human rights.
Governance is the internal system of practices, controls, and
procedures a company adopts in order to govern itself, make
effective decisions, comply with the law, and meet the needs of
external stakeholders. Every company requires sound corporate
governance, adapted to its size and its business model, ambition
and priorities.
Figure 4 Examples of ESG issues
— Climate change
— Water stress
— Biodiversity
— Land use
— Raw materials
— Pollution and waste
— Labour management
— Occupational health and safety
— Employee training
— Human rights
— Community relations
— Product governance
— Corporate governance
— Business ethics
— Anti-corruption
— Responsible tax
— Privacy and data security
ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE
ESG Reporting Guidelines 14
While ESG factors are at times called “non-financial” or “extrafinancial”, a more accurate description is that they vary in terms of
how easy it is to convert them into financial impacts. For example,
more efficient use of resources can be directly linked to the cost of
raw material, energy and related savings.
It may be more challenging to estimate the financial impacts for
other factors, nonetheless, they are relevant and even vital for
different stakeholders. For example, investors as well as regulators
demand sound corporate governance, which include strong antibribery and corruption management, and independent directors
on the board of a company. Another matter is health and safety
and good working conditions, which has a direct bearing on a
company’s license to operate, its reputation and the motivation of
its workforce. Hence, it is important to consider which ESG topics
are most relevant to a company and starting to measure, manage
and report on these.
2.2. The business case for ESG
The value driver model of the UN Global Compact and the
Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI) (Figure 5) is a tool for
communicating the business value of sustainability.12 Linking three
categories of sustainability drivers (growth, productivity and risk
management) to return on capital and key business metrics helps
disprove the myth that business success and ESG management
are not aligned. Business and investors are likely to speak the
same language when ESG is captured in a model like this.
Risk management
As the value driver model explains, integrating ESG in risk
management is an important step on a sustainability journey. A
negative ESG business case in the sense of losing value because
of avoidable risks is well understood by many boards. How
may ESG impact the company’s value chain? What material
sustainability issues may hit operation, or reputation? Physical
and transition risks13 linked to climate change are ever more
material. For example, the World Economic Forum’s (WEF) Global
Risks Report 2021 rates climate change related risks as very
significant.14 Other environmental risks, such as natural resources
crises and biodiversity loss and societal risks, like the erosion
of social cohesion erosion dominate the global risk landscape,
according to the WEF’s research. How do these risks impact
operations and license to operate? Being aware of ESG risks
and handling these adequately is a fundamental part of running
a business and pursuing operational excellence. Mapping and
prioritising ESG risks, for example by filling out a materiality matrix,
and managing this over time is of great importance (see part two
of this report).
Productivity
The value model also describes that ESG offers opportunities to
increase productivity, doing more with less. Increasing efficiency
in, for example, the use of raw material and other resources such
as energy and water management is good for both the planet and
a company’s financial bottom line. As employees are a vital part
of the equation, it is important to recognise the impact of ESG
on labour markets. A vast majority (around 70%) of millennials
say they prefer working in a company with a strong sustainability
agenda15. Companies may want to consider whether this poses a
risk or an opportunity to their productivity.
Figure 5 The UN Global Compact value driver model
— New markets & Geographies
— New customers & market share
— Product & service innovation
— Long-term strategy
Revenue growth from
sustainability-enhanced
or advanced
products & services
Total cost saving +
avoidance from
sustainability-related
initiatives
Measurable reduction
in exposure to
sustainability-related
risks to revenue
and reputation
— Operational efficiency
— Human capital management
— Reputation pricing power
— Operational & regulatory risk
— Reputational risk
— Supply chain risk
— Leadership & adaptability
Return on
Equity or Capital
Risk
Management
Productivity
Growth
12 PRI and UN Global Compact. The value driver model: a tool for communicating the business value of sustainability. Report (publ. 2014).
https://www.unglobalcompact.org/library/811
13 Physical and transition risks as defined in section 6.3 of these Guidelines (indicator E-M3 Climate risks and opportunities)
14 World Economic Forum: The Global Risks Report 2021 (publ. 2021). http://reports.weforum.org/global-risks-report-2021/
15 Governance & Accountability Institute, Millennials Really Do Want To Work for Environmentally-Sustainable Companies, According to a New Survey of
Large Company Employees (publ. 23 February 2019), https://www.ga-institute.com/newsletter/press-release/article/millennials-really-do-want-to-work-forenvironmentally-sustainable-companies-according-to-a-new-su.html
ESG Reporting Guidelines 15
Growth
ESG can drive top line growth in both business-to-consumer and
business-to-business markets. Research suggests that 79% of
consumers are changing their purchase preferences based on
social responsibility, inclusiveness, or environmental impact.16
Moreover, COVID-19 has increased consumer awareness and
commitment to buying sustainably: 67% of consumers said that
they will be more cautious about the scarcity of natural resources
due to the COVID-19 crisis, and 65% said that they would be
more mindful about the impact of their overall consumption in the
“new normal.” Some companies even claim that their sustainable
brands grow faster than other parts of their business.17
In business-to-business markets, ESG management is more
prominent. One reason is that as businesses are increasingly
committed to reducing their footprint, they are looking for solutions
across their value chains that contribute to that goal. As part of
their formal purchasing policies, they can manage this reduction
of footprint and reduce reputational risk as well. Suppliers that are
best positioned to meet these demands will create a competitive
advantage.
The drivers of the ESG business case may have different weights
from one sector to another, but they are equally applicable for
large cap or small cap businesses. Long-term value creation by
leveraging ESG potential will be key to define success in business.
2.3. Attracting capital - ESG in the
financial sector
Over the last decade, sustainability has gained weight in the
financial sector. The sector is shifting away from the short-term
investment approach that maximises financial returns towards
a long-term value creation model that optimises financial, social
and environmental value subject to risk. Investors, lenders,
insurers and other financial players alike are becoming aware
that corporate financial statements alone are not necessarily
sufficient in determining the company’s risk profile and potential. It
is acknowledged that both a company’s balance sheet and profit
and loss account can be impacted by ESG factors. Good ESG
management quality reflects operational excellence. Investors and
other providers of financial services have recognised that ESG has
a significant impact on the value creation of an organisation. The
environmental and social risks a company may face, and the way
in which these risks are managed can deter providers of capital
and raise the cost of capital. As ESG is also integrated in other
financial instruments (e.g. loans, green bonds, insurance, etc.) the
financial sector is leading the mainstreaming of ESG.
The need for issuers to respond to this demand for ESG
information is clear. By disclosing the data investors seek, issuers
can provide reassurance that they are effectively managing
business risks and identifying opportunities.
Principles for Responsible Investment
(PRI)
The PRI were established by 100 investment
institutions in 2006. It outlines six voluntary
and aspirational investment principles to
incorporate ESG issues into investment
practice.
In 2010 PRI had 800 signatories with USD 22
trillion AUM. In the ten years that followed,
the collective AUM represented by PRI
signatories increased by 370% to US$103.4
trillion, and the number of signatories
increased to a total of 3,038 signatories as
of 31 March 2020.
From an issuer perspective, good ESG
reporting is thus an advantage in attracting
capital from these investors.
16 Capgemini Research Institute. How sustainability is changing consumer preferences. Research report (publ. 8 July 2020).
https://www.us.sogeti.com/explore/news/research-how-sustainability-is-changing-consumer-preferences/
17 Unilever. Brands with purpose grow – and here’s the proof. Featured article (publ. 11 June 2019).
https://www.unilever.com/news/news-and-features/Feature-article/2019/brands-with-purpose-grow-and-here-is-the-proof.html
ESG Reporting Guidelines 16
2.4. Increasing regulatory and societal
pressure
Companies need to comply with local, national and international
regulation and standards as a baseline for their ESG agenda.
This may relate to a broad set of topics, ranging from waste
management to pollution and energy efficiency as well as human
rights and labour responsibility. The European Union has an
ambitious ‘green agenda’ to adapt its economy and society to the
sustainability challenges our world is facing. By being a frontrunner, it aims to capture the opportunities that a green economy
will offer in terms of jobs, prosperity and well-being (within the
limits of the earth’s carrying capacity).
The number of global ESG regulations is increasing (Figure 6).18
Across the world’s 50 largest economies, there have been over
730 hard and soft-law policy revisions, across some 500 policy
instruments, which support, encourage or require investors to
consider long-term value drivers, including ESG factors. Regarding
the legislative framework in the European Union, the European
Financial Reporting Advisory Group (EFRAG) recently confirmed
the “strong need and support for a significant step forward in
sustainability reporting in the EU, including the adoption of robust
standards […] there is a pressing need to foster greater relevance,
comparability and reliability of sustainability reporting through a
combination of legislative and regulatory provisions”.19
Rather than taking a minimum-compliance approach, issuers
could consider the regulatory requirements as an opportunity to
enhance their reporting to investors. Moving beyond the areas
covered in regulation and toward identifying your business’ most
material ESG themes and the underlying indicators based on
global standards makes a difference relative to a merely regulation
compliant ESG reporting. Only then a company will be able to
produce ESG reporting that aligns closely with its own material
issues, and that enables a richer data flow and dialogue with
investors to take place.
It is not only via formal legislation and soft law that sustainability
is being nudged. Societal expectations about sustainable
development are becoming more explicit. A report by Cambridge
University captures it well: “The slow pace and reactive nature of
regulation means that society cannot rely solely on governments
and policymakers to effectively navigate these challenges. There is
growing public expectation that businesses must step up and take
responsibility for delivering positive outcomes for society and the
environment.”20
Interest groups are confronting companies and governments
with the impact of their actions. Social media allow for swift
communication on issues and incidents. Oil spillages, low paid
factory workers in developing countries, and melting glaciers all
find their way to the screens of citizens around the world. NGOs
launch public campaigns against companies, but also take
multinationals to court.
Figure 6 Responsible investment regulatory and soft-law development
1972
0
100
50
150
500
550
400
300
200
250
350
450
1976 1980 1984 1988 1992 1996 2000 2004 2008 2012 2016 2020
Number of responsible investment-related policy instruments over time
across the world’s 50 largest economies
18 PRI: Taking stock: Sustainable finance policy engagement and policy influence. White paper (publ. 2019).
https://www.unpri.org/Uploads/c/j/u/pripolicywhitepapertakingstockfinal_335442.pdf
19 European Financial Reporting Advisory Group. Proposals for a relevant and dynamic EU sustainability reporting standard-setting. Report (publ. February
2021). https://www.efrag.org/Assets/Download?assetUrl=%2Fsites%2Fwebpublishing%2FSiteAssets%2FEFRAG%2520PTF-NFRS_MAIN_REPORT.pdf
20 Cambridge University, Institute for Sustainability leadership. Rewiring leadership: The future we want, the leadership we need. (Publ. 2018)
https://www.cisl.cam.ac.uk/resources/publication-pdfs/rewiring-leadership.pdf
ESG Reporting Guidelines 17
3 ESG Reporting
– key considerations
When selecting the approach for sustainability reporting,
companies should consider the needs and expectations of their
stakeholders in terms of content, format and granularity of data.
This chapter provides an overview of key considerations to help
companies navigate this process.
3.1. Reporting formats
Companies can choose the reporting format that best suits their
needs provided it meets the relevant legal requirements. The
overview below presents different options companies can follow.
Annual report
It is increasingly common that companies discuss key ESG
issues within their annual reports. However, reporting may be
limited to a few ESG topics and metrics to match the style and
structure of the financial reporting. Additional information can be
provided separately through the corporate website and/or more
comprehensive stand-alone sustainability report. Best practice
stipulates that such information is properly referenced in the annual
report. Companies under the scope of NFRD may publish ESG
information as part of the management report or as a stand-alone
non-financial information statement.
Stand-alone sustainability report
This approach is among the most frequently used among
companies internationally as it allows all sustainability information
to be gathered in one dedicated document. Publishing stand-alone
sustainability report gives companies flexibility to present ESG data
in whichever way suits them best. Issuers falling under the scope
of the NFRD have the option to either publish a standalone nonfinancial information statement covering the ESG topics required
by the directive or issue a fully-fledged sustainability report. In the
latter case, companies may decide to include a reference table
linking content of the report to the disclosure topics required by
the NFRD to allow users to easily find relevant information. The
Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) offers guidance for the reporting
process and deliverables. However, the option of issuing a standalone sustainability report will disappear under the current CSRD
proposal as all information would have to be disclosed in the
company’s management report.
While it is possible to publish sustainability reports up to 6 months
after the publication of the annual report, it is best practice to
publish them at the same time to allow the user to read them
together as a complete package of information. It is also best
practice to ensure that the information reported in the stand-alone
sustainability report is consistent and comparable with the annual
report, for example by ensuring that it covers the same period.
Integrated report
Integrated reporting combines financial and sustainability reporting
in a single document. It shows how the company strategy and
value creation model is linked to the ESG performance. For that
reason, it is mostly used by companies with advanced ESG
management systems. This approach has been promoted by the
International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC).
Figure 7 Reporting formats
ANNUAL REPORT + ESG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Focus on information
material for understanding
of enterprise value
Stand-alone report
covering sustainability
information only
INTEGRATED REPORT
Financial and sustainability
information integrated
in one document
ESG Reporting Guidelines 18
3.2. Reporting standards and frameworks
Companies are encouraged to disclose ESG information in accordance with internationally accepted reporting standards and frameworks,
which also constitute important points of reference for the forthcoming proposed EU standards. Figure 8 presents some of the most
commonly used frameworks.
GRI IIRC SASB
USERS All companies Public companies Public companies in the US
AUDIENCE Various stakeholders Investors Investors
PURPOSE
To help companies and other
organisations communicate their
impact on the economy, environment
and the society.
To help companies explain how they
create value in the short, medium
and long-term both in financial and
non-financial terms through integrated
reporting.
To help companies listed in the
US disclose material sustainability
information in the US Securities and
Exchange Commision (SEC) filings.
SCOPE
Sustainability reporting standards
providing companies with guidance
on reporting specific metrics within
the following areas:
— General disclosure
— Economic
— Environmental
— Social
Principle-based framework that
focuses on six capitals essential to
the value creation process: financial,
manufactured, intellectual, human,
social and relationship, and natural.
Sustainability accounting standards
covering the following areas:
— Environment
— Social capital
— Human capital
— Business model and innovation
— Leadership and governance
SECTORAL
GUIDANCE
Some sector-specific guidance
provided No Yes
ALIGNMENT
WITH NFRD Yes No No
In November 2020, the SASB and IIRC has announced plans to merge
into one organisation – the Value Reporting Foundation, which will focus on
creating a comprehensive reporting framework.
3.3. The importance of decision-useful
climate reporting
Over recent years climate change has become the number one
ESG theme as it poses significant risks and opportunities for
businesses, investors, economies and societies alike. Regulations
increasingly ask financial market participants to evaluate climaterelated risk and opportunities and integrate them in the investment
management process. The demand for meaningful climate-related
corporate disclosure is following suit.
To address financial markets’ needs for increased and consistent
climate reporting, in 2015 the Financial Stability Board established
the TCFD. In 2017 TCFD presented a framework to help
companies disclose information on their approach for managing
climate-related risks and opportunities. It focuses on four key
areas: governance, strategy, risk management, as well as targets
and metrics, outlined in the table below.
Figure 8 Major international reporting frameworks
ESG Reporting Guidelines 19
GOVERNANCE
Disclose the organisation’s governance
around climate-related risks and
opportunities.
a. Describe the organisation’s governance around climate-related risks and
opportunities.
b. Describe management’s role in assessing and managing climate-related
risks and opportunities.
STRATEGY
Disclose the actual and potential
impacts of climate-related risks and
opportunities on the organisation’s
businesses, strategy, and financial
planning where such information is
material.
a. Describe the climate-related risks and opportunities the organisation has
identified over the short, medium, and long term.
b. Describe the impact of climate-related risks and opportunities on the
organisation’s businesses, strategy, and financial planning.
c. Describe the resilience of the organisation’s strategy, taking into
consideration different climate-related scenarios, including a 2°C or lower
scenario.
RISK MANAGEMENT
Disclose how the organisation
identifies, assesses, and manages
climate-related risks.
a. Describe the organisation’s processes for identifying and assessing climaterelated risks.
b. Describe the organisation’s processes for managing climate-related risks.
c. Describe how processes for identifying, assessing, and managing climaterelated risks are integrated into the organisation’s overall risk management.
METRICS AND TARGETS
Disclose the metrics and targets
used to assess and manage relevant
climate-related risks and opportunities
where such information is material.
a. Disclose the metrics used by the organisation to assess climate-related risks
and opportunities in line with its strategy and risk management process.
b. Disclose Scope 1, Scope 2 and, if appropriate, Scope 3 greenhouse gas
(GHG) emissions and the related risks.
c. Describe the targets used by the organisation to manage climate-related
risks and opportunities and performance against targets.
Figure 9 TCFD Recommendations 21
While the TCFD recommendations remain a voluntary, marketled initiative, regulators are taking steps to encourage its broader
adoption. The EU Commission’s Non-Binding Guidelines on
Reporting Climate-Related Information, which supplements
the Non-Financial Reporting Directive, refer to the TCFD
recommendations as “widely recognised authoritative guidance on
the reporting of financially material climate-related information.”22
The Commission’s proposal for a Corporate Sustainability
Reporting Directive embeds the concepts of the TCFD more
clearly into EU legislation. Combined with the proposed EU
standards, it would in effect make the TCFD mandatory.
Other frameworks that facilitate disclosure of climate-related
information include CDP and the Climate Disclosure Standards
Board (CDSB) Framework:
— CDP allows companies to disclose detailed information
on their climate change impacts through standardised
questionnaires, which are subsequently scored by the CDP to
help drive environmental leadership;
— The CDSB Framework helps companies provide investors
with disclosure on environmental matters and related risks and
opportunities in their annual reports.
21 TCFD. Recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures. Final report (publ. June 2017).
https://www.fsb-tcfd.org/recommendations/
22 Official Journal of the European Union. Communication from the Commission — Guidelines on non-financial reporting: Supplement on reporting climaterelated information C/2019/4490 (Publ. 20 June 2019). [Page 4]
https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A52019XC0620%2801%29
ESG Reporting Guidelines 20
Part 2
How can
a company
report on ESG?
ESG Reporting Guidelines 21
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND OPERATIONAL EXECUTION
ESG reporting should be understood as part of the corporate business cycle, not as a stand-alone product.
Sound corporate governance that drives the ambition to integrate ESG in core processes, taking responsibility
and being accountable for that are the foundation of the transition towards more sustainable operations. An
ESG report, built on the presented characteristics, reflects on the process of continuous improvement of the
company.
4 Key characteristics of
investor-oriented ESG reporting
As ESG disclosure is increasingly demanded by analysts and capital market participants, it is important for issuers to respond to these
information needs accordingly. Decision-useful ESG disclosure has several key characteristics. It should be:
Materiality is perhaps the single most
important factor to consider when
preparing ESG disclosures. Applying a
rigorous materiality process helps identify
relevant ESG issues and prioritise them
according to the likelihood and magnitude
of their potential impact on company
operations. Section 5.1 provides further
details.
Disclosure should be objective and
balanced, including both positive
and negative developments. Any
misstatements or omissions of material
information should be avoided.
Companies should explain the scope and
boundaries of the reported information,
especially when certain information
pertains only to some (but not all) of its
activities or subsidiaries.
Generic, “boiler-plate” disclosure is of
limited use to investors and analysts.
Disclosure on material ESG issues should
be aligned with strategic information
necessary for investment decisionmaking, such as description of relevant
risks and opportunities as well as a
process for managing them. It is also
important for the disclosure to be forwardlooking, such as linking quantitative ESG
metrics and targets to the company
strategy.
ESG reporting should be presented in
a clear and concise manner and for a
specific period, usually a given reporting
year. Reporting excessive or irrelevant
information can lead to the confusion and
obscure key messages.
Prioritising quantitative data facilitates
peer comparison by investors and
analysts. Reported KPIs should be linked
to the company business strategy and
present the company’s performance in
key ESG areas. A narrative description
providing additional context is also
important and helps explain the numbers
and how the company is progressing.
External assurance of reported data helps
to increase its credibility, allowing for more
effective integration by investors.
Material Objective Strategic and
forward-looking
Verifiable Comparable
and reliable
Clear
and concise
ESG Reporting Guidelines 22
5 Step-by-step approach to report on
ESG
1. IDENTIFY PURPOSE & AUDIENCE 2. CONDUCT A MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT
As a first step, it is helpful for a company to identify who is
the audience targeted with this report and what do they
want to know. To do so, the company should consider:
– What is the purpose of this reporting exercise?
– Who do we target with this report and what are
 their needs?
Based on the targeted audience, a company can define
which information is material to report (section 5.1)
To be in line with the EU taxonomy, issuers are to disclose whether
 and how they comply with minimum safeguards (section 5.2)
Content of the report
– brief description of the business model
– description of policies & processes
– description of policies’ outcomes
– principal ESG risks and implications
– KPIs, analysis and implications of the results
– describe compliance with min. safeguards
– report on green revenue
3. ASSESS COMPLIANCE WITH MINIMUM SAFEGUARDS
4. SELECT THE RELEVANT INDICATORS TO REPORT ON
5. ANALYSE DATA AND BUILD YOUR REPORT
NFRD
EU TAXONOMY
Comply or explain
If material information
is not reported,
explain why
Align with minimum
disclosure
requirements
Consider additional
sector specific risks
and opportunities
Tailor set of KPIs
to your Company
- Heatmap (p. 27)
- Metrics (Chap. 6)
TOOLBOX 1 2 3
Figure 10 Step-by-step approach to report on ESG
Chapter 5 presents a step-by-step guide to help companies decide which information to disclose. It introduces the concept of materiality,
minimum safeguards and minimum disclosure metrics. Additional sector-specific disclosures that companies could consider including in
their ESG reporting are also discussed in this chapter.
ESG Reporting Guidelines 23
5.1. Materiality: What is relevant to investors and other stakeholders?
The concept of materiality is commonly used in the context of financial accounting and disclosure. In essence it defines which information
is decision-useful and, as stated in the Non-Financial Reporting Directive, necessary for the “understanding of the company’s development,
performance and impact of its activities.”23
It is important to note that the definition of materiality by the NFRD implies a double materiality perspective, by connecting financial
materiality with environmental and social materiality. As such, ESG disclosures should be driven by actual and potential ESG risks and
opportunities that can have material implications for the company’s financial and operational performance as well as the consideration of its
external impact on the society and environment. The graph below summarises the double materiality perspective introduced by the NFRD.
Materiality is specific to the company, its context and stakeholders. When deciding which issues and information are material, companies
may consider the following:
— Business model and company-specific circumstances. Company business strategy, goals and values as well as principal risks
within its value chain are important factors to assess.
— Sector-specific issues. Companies within the same industry are likely to face similar ESG risks and opportunities. Benchmarking
against peers and competitors can thus help to identify relevant issues. SASB Standards can also provide useful input for companies as
they conduct their materiality assessments.
— Stakeholder expectations. Proactive engagement with internal and external stakeholders (including investors) can help to better
understand their interests and needs.
MATERIALITY
Defines which information is decision useful and necessary for ...
FINANCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL & SOCIAL
“understanding of the company’s
development, performance... ... and impact of its activity”
IMPACT IMPACT
RISK
Company Environment
& Society
Primary audience: investors Primary audience: stakeholders, investors
Company Environment
& Society
Figure 11 Double Materiality Perspective24
23 Official Journal of the European Union. Communication from the Commission — Guidelines on non-financial reporting: Supplement on reporting climaterelated information C/2019/4490 (Publ. 20 June 2019). https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A52019XC0620%2801%29
24 Adapted from the EU Commission. fficial Journal of the European Union. Communication from the Commission — Guidelines on non-financial reporting:
Supplement on reporting climate-related information C/2019/4490 (Publ. 20 June 2019).
https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A52019XC0620%2801%29
ESG Reporting Guidelines 24
5.2. Assess whether and how you comply with minimum safeguards
To be in line with the EU Taxonomy, issuers should disclose whether and to what extent they comply with minimum safeguards such as:
— The Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises25: A
set of recommendations for responsible business conduct in a global context. Recommendations cover a variety of topics (such as
human rights; employment and industrial relations; environment; bribery; consumer interests; science and technology; competition and
taxation).
— The UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human rights26: Guiding principles covering the corporate responsibility to respect
human rights.
— The eight fundamental conventions of the International Labour Organisation27: Legal instruments covering subjects that are
considered fundamental principles and rights at work such as freedom of association and right to collective bargaining; the elimination
of all forms of forced or compulsory labour; the effective abolition of child labour; and the elimination of discrimination in respect of
employment and occupation.
— The International Bill of Human Rights28: It consists of the five core human rights treaties of the United Nations.
5.3. Indicators selection process
Not all ESG issues are equally relevant to all businesses. Deciding what ESG metrics to report can be a difficult task, especially for
companies which have yet to build capacity in the ESG reporting area. A two-step approach consisting of minimum disclosures and
additional sector-specific disclosures will help to level companies’ performance and increase availability and consistency of data. More
importantly, by focusing on a smaller but carefully considered pool of indicators companies will be able to better prioritise key issues in line
with the current and anticipated regulatory developments, and key risk and opportunities relevant to their sector.
The chart below (Figure 12) presents a simple step-by-step process a company may follow to select a set of metrics and KPIs to report on.
Align with minimum
disclosure requirements
Consider additional sector
specific risks and opportunities
Tailor set of KPIs
to your Company
1 2 3
Figure 12 Indicator selection process
Minimum and sector-specific disclosures are defined in line with the existing and potential regulatory requirements. In addition, they also
consider the relevance to investors and other stakeholders, existing disclosure practices, and finally the potential of an issue to affect the
company performance and financial condition.
It is important to emphasise that this process is provided merely as an illustration. More advanced companies may prefer to conduct their
own materiality assessment supported by stakeholder consultation to determine which ESG issues are material.
25 OECD. Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises. (Publ. 2011) http://www.oecd.org/daf/inv/mne/48004323.pdf
26 United Nations, Human Rights – Office of the High Commissioner. Guiding principle on business and human rights. (Publ. 2011).
https://www.ohchr.org/documents/publications/guidingprinciplesbusinesshr_en.pdf
27 ILO. Fundamental Conventions.
https://www.ilo.org/global/standards/introduction-to-international-labour-standards/conventions-and-recommendations/lang--en/index.htm
28 United Nations, Human Rights – Office of the High Commissioner. The international bill of human rights. (Publ. 10 December 1948).
https://www.ohchr.org/documents/publications/compilation1.1en.pdf
ESG Reporting Guidelines 25
After conducting its materiality assessment and having selected themes to report on, a company can start reporting against selected
metrics. Chapter 6 defines those metrics theme by theme. The metrics are presented as per Table 1.
Code Indicator name Unit
 EU legislation Other frameworks
NFRD SFDR GRI SASB Other
Minimum disclosures (applicable to all sectors)
S-M1 Board Diversity Percentage (%) • • 405-1 • -
S-M2 Gender Pay Gap Ratio Percentage (%) • • 405-2 • DPSN2021
Table 1 An example of how metrics are presented in Chapter 6
An indicator is introduced with its unit. As a reference, the GRI code that covers the indicator is specified (although those may differ in
certain circumstances). The table also tells whether an indicator is in line with EU legislation such as the NFRD and other frameworks (e.g.
SASB, CDP, TFCD etc.). The EU legislation framework is further defined in annex B.
To guide a company’s interpretation and selection of relevant metrics, each metric has an ID code. Figure 13 details how a metric’s ID code
is built. It is composed of two letters and one number. The first letter depends on the high-level category of the indicator: environmental,
social or governance. The second letter tells whether the indicator is considered minimum or sector-specific disclosure.
Figure 13 Definition of the Indicator ID
CATEGORY APPLICABILITY NUMBER
ENVIROMENTAL
SOCIAL
GOVERNANCE
M Minimum disclosure 1;2-n
S Sector specific disclosure 1;2-n
M Minimum disclosure 1;2-n
S Sector specific disclosure 1;2-n
M Minimum disclosure 1;2-n
S Sector specific disclosure 1;2-n
5.3.1. Minimum disclosures (Blue ID Indicator in Chapter 6)
As a first step a list of minimum disclosures that every company should consider regardless of its business model or sector-specific
characteristics is identified. The metrics proposed in Table 2 cover key areas under the NFRD, namely environment; social and employee
issues; human rights; and bribery and corruption. They are also aligned with the NFRD’s diversity provisions and the ESG disclosure
requirements included in the updated WSE’s corporate governance code.
ESG Reporting Guidelines 26
Environmental (E) Social (S) Governance (G)
Sustainability Governance
E-M1 GHG Emissions S-M1 Board Diversity G-M1 Board Composition
E-M2 Energy Consumption S-M2 Gender Pay Gap G-M2 Business Ethics Policy
E-M3 Climate Risks & Opportunities S-M3 Employee Turnover G-M3 Anti-Corruption Policy
S-M4 Freedom of Association and
Collective Bargaining G-M4 Whistle-Blower Mechanism
S-M5 Human Rights Policy
S-M6 Human Rights Due Diligence
Table 2 Minimum disclosures metrics
5.3.2. Sector-specific disclosures (Green ID indicator in Chapter 6)
The 13 minimum disclosures are supplemented with a list of sector-specific disclosures. These are issues that are likely to be relevant to
some companies based on the sector they operate in and the ESG risks and opportunities common to that sector. To help identify material
ESG themes per sector, a simplified heatmap has been provided below. As can be observed in the map, some sectors are exposed to a
larger number of ESG risks and opportunities than others. For example, a company from the extractives sector might need to consider a
wider range of issues than a technology company. Hence, the company’s ESG disclosure should reflect that.
The heatmap is based on the SASB materiality map as well as other industry-specific considerations. As such, it does not represent an
exhaustive list of all relevant topics. It should therefore be used as a guidance, and not an absolute suggestion.
ESG Reporting Guidelines 27
HEATMAP - Guidance to select sector specific themes
Indicators per theme
Consumer goods
Healthcare
Financials
Industrials
Extractives
Utilities
Technology &
communication
Trade & services
Environmental
Climate Change
E-M1 GHG Emissions • • • • • • • •
E-M2 Energy Consumption • • • • • • • •
E-M3 Climate Risks & Opportunities • • • • • • • •
E-S1 Emissions Intensity • • • • • • • •
E-S2 Emissions Management • • • • • • • •
Natural Resources
E-S3 Water Consumption • • • • • • • •
E-S4 Water Management • • • • • • • •
E-S5 Impact on Biodiversity • • • • • • • •
Waste and pollution
E-S6 Waste Management • • • • • • • •
Social
Diversity
S-M1 Board Diversity • • • • • • • •
S-M2 Gender Pay Gap • • • • • • • •
Working conditions
S-M3 Employee Turnover • • • • • • • •
S-M4 Freedom of Association and
Collective Bargaining • • • • • • • •
S-S1 Employee Health and Safety • • • • • • • •
Human Rights
S-M5 Human Rights Policy • • • • • • • •
S-M6 Human Rights Due Diligence • • • • • • • •
Governance
Corporate Governance
G-M1 Board Composition • • • • • • • •
Business Integrity
G-M2 Business Ethics Standards • • • • • • • •
G-M3 Anti-corruption Policy • • • • • • • •
G-M4 Whistle-blower Mechanism • • • • • • • •
Data Security & Privacy
G-S1 Data Security Policy • • • • • • • •
For each sector, the heatmap specifies which topics and corresponding metrics should be considered in addition to the minimum
disclosures. The different levels of relevance are indicated by the following colour codes:
Relevance as shown in the heatmap: • Minimum disclosures | • Likely to be relevant | • Less likely to be relevant
ESG Reporting Guidelines 28
6 Metrics for ESG reporting
Chapter 6 gathers a set of metrics in line with existing reporting frameworks including:
— green revenue in line with the EU Taxonomy (section 6.1)
— sustainability governance (section 6.2)
— environmental indicators (section 6.3)
— social indicators (section 6.4)
— governance indicators (section 6.5)
6.1. Green revenue in line with the EU Taxonomy
Identifying and measuring a company’s exposure to green products and services is challenging in multiple ways. The EU Taxonomy is useful
in assessing associated revenues from “environmental” activities by providing a threefold assessment (see figure 3). According to the EU
Taxonomy (article 8), companies that are under the scope of the NFRD shall include in their non-financial statement or consolidated nonfinancial statement information how and to what extent the undertaking’s activities are associated with economic activities that qualify as
environmentally sustainable.
By requiring companies to disclose to what extent their activities contribute to environmental objectives, the EU Taxonomy will over time
generate greater volumes of data about sustainable economic activities. This facilitates more sophisticated analysis helping investors to
anticipate and respond to emerging trends in the green economy.
Definition:
Green revenue is defined as a company’s revenue associated to sustainable products and services in line with the EU Taxonomy.
What should be disclosed?
To disclose whether and to what extent their economic activities are aligned with the EU Taxonomy, companies under the scope of the
NFRD shall disclose both of the following:
— The proportion of their turnover derived from products or services associated with economic activities that qualify as environmentally
sustainable according to the EU Taxonomy.
— The proportion of their capital expenditure and the proportion of their operating expenditure related to assets or processes associated
with economic activities that qualify as environmentally sustainable according to the EU Taxonomy.
The Commission will specify the content and the presentation of the information to be disclosed including the methodology to be used to
report on the above by means of a delegated act (to be adopted by 1 June 2021).
6.2. Sustainability governance
Providing a clear overview of how ESG issues are embedded and managed within an organisation is a cornerstone of effective sustainability
communication. A description of the business model and the sustainability framework is thus essential for stakeholders to gauge a
company’s preparedness to respond to sustainability challenges and opportunities over time.
BUSINESS
MODEL
ROLES AND
RESPONSIBILITIES
POLICIES, STRATEGIES
AND GOALS
RISK
MANAGEMENT
ESG Reporting Guidelines 29
Business model
The way the company operates and creates value over time provides an important context to understand its exposure to sustainability
issues.
As such, the companies may choose to provide information about the following:
— activities, products and services
— markets of operation
— size (i.e. workforce, business locations, revenue, etc.)
— organisational structure (i.e. ownership and legal form)
Companies in scope of the NFRD are required to provide a description of their business model.
Roles and responsibilities
Assigning roles and responsibilities for sustainability matters is paramount for effective implementation of sustainability-related policies,
strategies and goals as well as the management of the sustainability reporting process. It also helps to increase accountability and can serve
as a yardstick by which the leadership commitment to sustainability is measured.
The chart below (Figure 14) provides an overview of how this structure can be set up and what are some important considerations.
Figure 14 Sustainability governance
– Is this ‘highest’ governance body including ESG in its supervisory responsibilities?
– Is sustainability discussed periodically in board meetings?
– Is there a dedicated sustainability committee (similar in structure and
function to a risk management or remuneration committee?
– Who is the responsible board member for development and implementation
of sustainability-related strategies, polices and targets?
– What is the scope of the sustainability related work of this executive?
– Is the sustainability performance of the board included in its remuneration (bonus) system?
– Is there a dedicated sustainability/ESG department in the organization?
– What is the scope of the sustainability related work of this department?
– Is this department responsible for the sustainability reporting process?
– How is sustainability integrated in the work of functional departments
and line management?
– Are there specific targets and KPIs?
– Are these part of the remuneration (bonus) system?
SUPERVISORY
BOARD
FUNCTIONAL
DEPARTMENTS
LINE MANAGEMENT
SUSTAINABILITY
DEPARTMENT
ESG Reporting Guidelines 30
Under TCFD recommendations companies should also provide information on governance around climaterelated issues. See section 3.3 fore more details.
Sustainability-related policies, strategies and goals
Integrating sustainability considerations into overall business strategy and planning helps to show where priorities are in the organisation and
which direction it is heading.
Sustainability strategy outlines the company’s sustainability ambitions along with the actions and deadlines for achieving them. It should be
bolstered by specific policies and action plans for their implementation.
Companies in scope of the NFRD are required to disclose policies related to environmental, social and employee
matters, human rights, and bribery and corruption. Comply or explain principle applies.
Risk management
Embedding environmental and social risks into company overall risk management processes helps to further anchor sustainability in
business operations and strategic decision-making. It is important to consider risks within the company’s own operations as well its supply
chain. Companies should consider environmental and social risks through the implementation of due diligence processes of the principal or
potential adverse impacts. These risks may apply to a company’s operations, its products and services, its business relationships, and its
supply chains.
Companies in scope of the NFRD are required to disclose their principal risks and relevant due diligence
process.
6.3. Environmental indicators
Environmental indicators cover issues that arise from, or impact the natural environment. Companies can decide to report all indicators or
select those that are most relevant to their business operations.
Climate Change
Climate change has emerged as the biggest environmental challenge of our times, posing significant risks and opportunities for businesses
and investors alike. As the momentum around necessary climate action continues to build with new regulatory measures entering into force,
the demand for climate-related information and metrics is expected to follow suit.
Relevance to investors / issuers
Investors want to understand whether companies:
— might be negatively impacted by tightening carbon regulations (i.e. carbon pricing) for example through regulatory fines or the stranded
assets risks
— consider physical risks of climate change as part of business continuity/resilience planning
— are transition-ready and have aligned their strategies and investment plans with the requirements of the Paris Agreement and the lowcarbon economy
— pursue climate-related opportunities such as investments in innovative technologies or new products or services
ESG Reporting Guidelines 31
Recommended disclosures:
Code Indicator name Unit
EU legislation Other frameworks
NFRD SFDR TCFD GRI Other
Minimum disclosures (applicable to all sectors)
E-M1 GHG Emissions Tons carbon dioxide
(CO2
) equivalent • • • 305 CDP C6
E-M2 Energy Consumption MWh • • • 302 CDP C8
E-M3 Climate Risks & Opportunities Description • - • 102 CDP C2
Sector-specific disclosures*
E-S1 Emission Intensity Tons CO2 /unit of
activity • • • 305 CDP C6
E-S2 Emission Management Description • - • 305 CDP C4
* companies with significant exposure to climate change risks (i.e. those in high impact climate sectors) should consider fully aligning their
disclosures with the TCFD recommendations. However, as a minimum, companies are advised to provide information on the additional
sector-specific disclosures suggested in the table above.
Climate change KPIs
Minimum Disclosures
E M1
Climate change
GHG Emissions
Definition:
These definitions are aligned with those of the GHG Protocol.
GHG emissions are understood as total direct and indirect emissions. They should be further categorised into Scope 1, Scope 2 and Scope
3 emissions (if relevant) as follows:
Scope 1 Emissions
Direct emissions from owned or controlled sources, including: stationery combustion (fuels and heating sources), mobile combustion
(vehicles), fugitive emissions (resulting from refrigeration or air conditioning leakages), and process emissions from industrial processes.
Scope 2 Emissions
Indirect emissions from purchased or acquired electricity, heat or steam.
Scope 3 Emissions*
Other indirect emissions that occur in the value chain of reporting company both “upstream” and “downstream” of its operations
*It should be noted that reporting on Scope 3 Emissions under SFDR will be applicable from 1 January 2023. Hence, companies shall start
preparations for disclosure of such data.
What should be disclosed?
— Methods and assumptions used for calculation of the emissions.
— Scope 1, Scope 2 and Scope 3 (if relevant) emissions for the last three reporting years to facilitate performance assessment over time.
— Explanation of significant changes in performance (whether negative or positive), if relevant.
* It is recommended to use internationally recognised standards for the corporate accounting and reporting of GHG emissions such as the
GHG Protocol or the ISO 14064-1:2018 standard.
ESG Reporting Guidelines 32
E M2
Climate change
Energy Consumption
Definition:
Energy consumption is the total amount of energy consumed within an organisation. It comprises purchased and self-generated energy
sources.
What should be disclosed?
— Methods and assumptions used for calculation of the energy consumption.
— Total amount of energy consumed within the organisation (in MWh).
— Percentage (%) of energy consumed by type of energy (i.e. renewable and non-renewable energy sources).
E M3
Climate change
Climate risks and opportunities
Definition:
This indicator and related definitions are aligned with the TCFD recommendations.
Climate-related risks are understood as any potential negative impact resulting from climate change. They can be divided into two types of
risks:
Transition risks Physical risks
Risks associated with the transition to a lower-carbon economy,
including: Physical impacts of climate change, including
— policy and legal risks (e.g. risks stemming from current and
emerging regulations; litigation risks)
— technology risks (e.g. investments in climate-firendly
technology)
— market risks (e.g. changing consumer behaviour, increased
cost of raw materials)
— reputational risks
— acute risks (driven by extreme weather events, such as
droughts, floods or fires)
— chronic risks (resulting from long-term shifts in climate patterns,
such as temperature rise or sea-level rise)
Climate-related opportunities, on the other hand, are understood as any potential positive impacts resulting from climate change. Examples
can include:
— potential efficiency gains and cost-savings
— development of new products or services
— development of innovative technologies
What should be disclosed?
— Processes for identifying and evaluating climate-related risks (including what types of risks are considered the most relevant, their
likelihood, time horizon and potential impact).
— Process in place to manage identified risks.
— Identified climate-related opportunities along with the strategy to realise them (unless deemed commercially sensitive).
— Whether and how the company integrates climate-related risks and opportunities into business strategy and financial planning.
Additional considerations and resources
— Make reference to the TCFD, if possible.
— Inform your stakeholders if you have responded to the CDP questionnaire.
See also: Climate Disclosure Standards Board (CDSB) website, TCFD Knowledge Hub, and CDP resources
ESG Reporting Guidelines 33
Climate change KPIs
Sector-specific Disclosures
E S1
Climate change
Emission Intensity
Definition:
Emission intensity is the ratio of GHG emissions per unit of economic activity.
Different approaches to calculate this metric may apply. For example, under the SFDR, emission intensity should be calculated as total
Scope 1, 2 and 3 GHG emission per €M revenues. Different methods may be used by companies falling under the European Union
Emissions Trading System (EU-ETS).29
What should be disclosed?
— Methods and assumptions used for calculation.
— Ratio of total GHG emissions divided by a unit of economic activity.
It is recommended that companies in carbon-intensive sectors, depending on their business operations, use output of production to
normalise their GHG emissions. For example:
— Electric utilities: tonnes of CO2
e per MWh of electricity generated
— Cement: tonnes of CO2
e per tonne of cementitious product.
E S2
Climate change
Emission Management
Definition:
Emission management is a process an organisation follows to manage and mitigate their GHG emissions. It should include an explicit
strategy for how to reduce GHG emissions and time-bound targets for reducing GHG emissions.
What should be disclosed?
— Whether the company has implemented a strategy for GHG emission management and what are its key elements.
— Whether the company has set a time-bound target to reduce it GHG emissions and/or other climate related targets (for example to
increase renewable energy use).
— Whether the company strategy and targets are aligned with the objectives of the Paris Agreement, to limit global warming to well below
2°C above pre-industrial levels and pursue efforts to limit global warming to 1.5°C.
Additional considerations and resources
— If your disclosure is not yet fully aligned with the TCFD recommendations inform your stakeholders how you plan to address that in the
next reporting cycles.
See also:
— Transition Pathway Initiative methodology and resources
— Science-Based Targets Initiative website and resources
29 The EU Emissions Trading System. https://ec.europa.eu/clima/policies/ets_en
ESG Reporting Guidelines 34
Natural Resources
Certain companies by nature of their operations may have significant impacts on natural resources. Heightened risk of over-exploitation
of natural resources can be a result of water-intensive operations (especially if they are located in water-stressed areas) or impact on
biodiversity and wildlife habitat. Companies that do not manage those issues properly may face regulatory risks, reputational risks and/or
community opposition.
Recommended disclosures:
Code Indicator name Unit
EU legislation Other frameworks
NFRD SFDR GRI SASB Other
Sector-specific disclosures
E-S3 Water Consumption m3 • - 303 • CDP Water
E-S4 Water Management Description • • 102 • CDP Water
E-S5 Biodiversity Impacts Description • • 304 • CDP Forest
Natural Resources KPIS
Minimum Disclosures
E S3
Natural Resources
Water Consumption
Definition:
Water consumption is the total volume (in m3
) of water consumed by the organisation.
What should be disclosed?
— Total amount of water consumed within the organisation (in m3
).
— Total amount of water recycled and reused as a percentage of total water withdrawn.
E S4
Natural Resourcese
Water Management
Definition:
Water management is a process by which a company optimises its water consumption to reduce its impact on natural environment. It
includes activities to reduce water use within operations, increase water circularity (through water reuse and recycling) and preserve water
resources (through water stewardship efforts).
What should be disclosed?
— Whether the company has adopted and implemented a water management program and what it entails.
— Companies with operations in water-stress areas should also disclose a process for identifying and mitigating water-related risks.
ESG Reporting Guidelines 35
E S5
Natural Resources
Biodiversity Impacts
Definition:
Biodiversity has been defined by the UN Convention on Biological Diversity as “the term given to the variety of life on Earth and the natural
patterns it forms.”30 It includes species diversity as well as genetic and ecosystem diversity.
Biodiversity loss is considered a serious environmental challenge. It arises due to destruction and fragmentation of habitats mainly by human
activities, such as overexploitation of resources, land use changes (e.g. deforestation, urbanisation, intensive mono-culture), pollution and
climate change.
What should be disclosed?
— Whether the company has an impact on biodiversity (both directly or indirectly through its supply chain) and what are the main drivers of
this impact.
— What policies are in place to conserve and restore biodiversity and combat deforestation, and whether they are applicable to suppliers.
— What process is in place to manage and mitigate impacts on biodiversity, and whether it is applicable to supply chain.
Additional considerations and resources
— Inform your stakeholders if you have responded to the CDP Water or CDP Forest questionnaire
See also:
— CEO Water Mandate Corporate Reporting Guidelines
— WRI Aqueduct water risk atlas tool
Waste and Pollution
The public, regulators and investors are increasingly scrutinising companies waste management practices. Proper management of
hazardous waste as well as efforts to reduce, reuse and recycle waste materials are a particularly salient topic for companies with high levels
of waste generated as mismanagement of this issue can lead to regulatory fines and reputational damage.
Recommended disclosures:
Code Indicator name Unit
EU legislation Other frameworks
NFRD SFDR GRI SASB Other
Sector-specific disclosures
E-S6 Waste Management Description,
percentage (%) • • 306 • -
30 The UN Convention on Biological Diversity. https://www.cbd.int/convention/
ESG Reporting Guidelines 36
Waste and Pollution
Sector-specific Disclosures
E S5
Waste and Pollution
Waste Management
Definition:
Waste management is a set of activities to monitor, manage and reduce (including reuse and recycle) waste produced by an organisation.
What should be disclosed?
— Total amount of hazardous and non-hazardous waste generated (in tonnes).
— Waste by type of treatment (e.g. recycled, landfill) in percentage (%).
— Narrative explaining what activities are undertaken to manage waste and ensure regulatory compliance.
6.4. Social indicators
Social indicators relate to the rights, well-being and interests of people and communities. Companies can decide to report all indicators or
select those that are most relevant to their business operations.
Diversity
A growing body of evidence suggests that more diverse companies tend to perform better financially than their peer with less inclusive
cultures.31 Gender diversity at the board level and in senior and middle management is thus often considered by fund managers in their
investment process.
Relevance to investors / issuers
Investors are interested in companies that:
— foster diversity (including gender diversity) at the board level and among its employees
— develop and promote women into managerial and executive positions
— are able to show progress on diversity efforts
Recommended disclosure:
Code Indicator name Unit
EU legislation Other frameworks
NFRD SFDR GRI SASB Other
Minimum disclosures (applicable to all sectors)
S-M1 Board Diversity Percentage (%) • • 405-1 • -
S-M2 Gender Pay Gap Ratio Percentage (%) • • 405-2 • DPSN2021*
* Dobre Praktyki Spółek Notowanych na GPW 2021 (Good Practices of Companies Listed on WSE 2021)
31 S&P Global, Daniel J. Sandberg. When Women Lead, Firms Win. (Publ. 2019).
https://www.spglobal.com/en/research-insights/featured/when-women-lead-firms-win
ESG Reporting Guidelines 37
Diversity KPIs
Minimum Disclosures
S M1
Diversity
Board Diversity32
Definition:
Board diversity aims to measure whether an organisations’ governance bodies are represented by people with varied characteristics,
including gender but not limited to, in addition to skills and experience.
What should be disclosed?
Percentage of female board members in the management board and supervisory board.
S M2
Diversity
Gender Pay Gap Ratio
Definition:
This definition is aligned with the one in the DPSN2021.
Gender pay gap ratio is a difference between the average (gross) remuneration (including bonuses and other economic incentives) of men
and women within an organisation.
What should be disclosed?
The gender pay gap ratio.
To calculate gender pay gap ratio:
— Divide the total annual pay for all full-time male employees by the total number of male full-time employees (A)
— Divide the total annual pay for all full-time female employees by the total number of female full-time employees (B)
— Calculate the gender pay gap ratio by using the following formula: (A – B) / B x 100
The result of the formula tells how much more (or less) men earn than women on average in your organisation, and thus by how much
women’s average salary would need to be raised (lowered) to equal that of men.
Working Conditions
Maintaining good working conditions is key to the sustainability of a business. This is especially the case for labour intensive businesses
where productivity relies on employees’ commitment and satisfaction. Poor workforce management can impact productivity and eventually
the profitability of a business.
Relevance to investors / issuers
Investors are interested in companies that:
— recognise the value of its workforce and provide reasonable terms of employment
— align with labour and certification standards
— have a stable structure and operations
— do not interfere or discourage workers from forming or joining workers’ organisations
32 Board diversity is often considered a corporate governance issue. However, as it relates directly to the topic of gender diversity, it is included under Diversity
theme.
ESG Reporting Guidelines 38
Recommended disclosures:
Code Indicator name Unit
EU legislation Other frameworks
NFRD SFDR GRI SASB Other
Minimum disclosures (applicable to all sectors)
S-M3 Employee Turnover Percentage (%) • - 401-1 • -
S-M4 Freedom of Association and
Collective Bargaining
Percentage (%),
Description • - 102-41
407 • -
Sector-specific disclosures*
S-S1 Employee Health and Safety Number (#),
Description • - 403 • -
* Companies with significant exposure to occupational accidents (e.g. extractives or infrastructure) should consider providing additional
information on their approach to managing health and safety issues.
Working conditions KPIs
Minimum Disclosures
S M3
Working conditions
Employee turnover
Definition
The employee turnover measures the proportion of employees that have left an organisation during the fiscal year. The employee turnover
rate could be:
— voluntary (when an employee actively chooses to leave such as resignation or retirement)
— involuntary (when an employer chooses to end a contract and dismiss an employee such as layoff, retrenchment, or non-renewal of a
contract due to an employee’s performance, behaviour or the company’s decision to downsize)
High employee turnover may signal dissatisfaction with the work environment, compensation or workplace health or safety.
What should be disclosed
— The voluntary turnover rate (in percent).
— The involuntary turnover rate (in percent).
The turnover rate is calculated by dividing the number of employees that left the company during the fiscal year (voluntary or unvoluntary) by
the average number of employees within the year.
S M4
Working conditions
Freedom of association and collective bargaining
Definition
Collective bargaining and freedom of association is the right for workers to join workers’ organisations of their own choosing and to
negotiate their terms of employment.
ESG Reporting Guidelines 39
What should be disclosed
— The percentage of the active workforce covered by collective bargaining agreements. This is calculated as the number of active
workforce employees covered by a collective bargaining agreement divided by the total number of active workforce members within the
reporting year.
— Measures taken by companies to support workers’ rights to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining (both in their own
operations and in their supply chain).
Working conditions KPIs
Sector-specific Disclosures
S S1
Working conditions
Employee Health and Safety
Definition
Employee health and safety is a set of activities and procedures to prevent accidents and injuries in the workplace. Company performance
on this issue is often measured by the following indicators:
— total number of employee and contractor fatalities within a given period
— total number of work-related injuries within a given period
— lost-time incident rate (LTIR) - total number of incidents resulting in lost time from work, per measure of time (e.g. per 100,000 hours
worked)
What should be disclosed
— Whether the company has implemented a health and safety management system, what percentage of its operations does it cover and
what elements does it include.
— Relevant performance indicators for the last three reporting years to facilitate performance assessment over time, broken down by fulltime and contractual employees.
Human Rights
Businesses have a responsibility to respect international human rights standards. Beyond ethical concerns, companies that do not evaluate
and manage their human rights impacts may face reputational and regulatory risks and/or lose its social licence to operate.
Relevance to investors / issuers
Investors are interested in companies that:
— understand its responsibility to respect human rights
— embed human rights considerations into its operations and risk management process
— actively manage human rights impacts both within own operations and supply chain
Recommended disclosures:
Code Indicator name Unit
EU legislation Other frameworks
NFRD SFDR GRI SASB Other
Minimum Disclosures (applicable to all sectors)
S-M5 Human Rights Policy Description • • 412-1 • -
S-M6 Human Rights Due Diligence Description • • 412-1
414 • -
ESG Reporting Guidelines 40
Human Rights KPIs
Minimum Disclosures
S M5
Human Rights
Human Rights Policy
Definition
Human rights policy is a formal document outlining the company’s position on human rights. It can have a stand-alone format or be
integrated into a wider set of company standards such as a code of ethics or an employee/supplier code of conduct.
What should be disclosed?
— Whether the company has a human rights policy that extends to suppliers and business partners.
It is recommended that the policy:
— makes reference to internationally recognised human rights standards the company commits to respect (i.e. International Bill of Human
Rights and ILO’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work);
— sets out the company’s expectations of its employees
— sets out the company’s expectations of its suppliers and business partners
— describes a process for its implementation
— is communicated internally and externally
S M6
Human Rights
Human Rights Due Diligence
Definition
Human rights due diligence is a set of activities to identify, mitigate and act on actual and potential risks of human rights violations.
What should be disclosed?
— Whether the company conducts human rights due diligence throughout its value chain to assess risk exposure to human rights issues,
including child labour and forced labour.
It is recommended that the company discloses whether its human rights due diligence includes:
— identification of activities within own operations at risk of human rights violations
— identification or mapping of suppliers/raw materials with high exposure to human rights risk
— human rights risks assessment of new suppliers
— incorporation of human rights provisions into procurement contracts
— audit and monitoring of suppliers’ operations
— corrective action in case of identified non-compliance
Additional considerations and resources
— UNGP Reporting Framework with implementation guidance (in Polish)
— United Nations Global Compact, Guide on How to Develop a Human Rights Policy
— World Benchmarking Alliance, Corporate Human Rights Benchmark Methodology
ESG Reporting Guidelines 41
6.5. Governance indicators
Governance indicators cover issues relating to corporate governance and business ethics standards.
Corporate Governance
Corporate governance is a system of controls and procedures by which an organisation is operated. A company with strong corporate
governance structures is defined by professional management, a well-structured board, and organised systems and processes. These in
turn reduce and mitigate risks, and ensure decisions are aligned with the company’s and the shareholders’ interests. Weak governance
performance can impact the risk exposures and the bottom line significantly, and thereby also the credit ratings, and the access to capital
over time.
Relevance to investors / issuers
Investors favour companies that demonstrate good corporate governance, including:
— a well-structured framework of policies and procedures
— the protection and equitable treatment of all shareholders, including minority shareholders
— a good understanding and management of stakeholders’ interests vis-à-vis the company
— defined transparency and disclosure practices
— clear responsibilities of the board addressing the role of the board, compliance matters, treatment of shareholders, the code of conduct,
and the company’s objectives
— a board structure that considers balance of skills and includes independent board members
— transparent corporate governance and accounting practices
Recommended disclosures:
Code Indicator name Unit
EU legislation Other frameworks
NFRD SFDR GRI SASB Other
Minimum disclosures (applicable to all sectors)
G-M1 Board Composition Description - - GRI 102-22 - -
Corporate Governance KPIs
Minimum Disclosures
G M1
Corporate Governance
Board Composition
Definition
Board composition refers to the characteristics of the company’s highest governance bodies i.e. the management board and the supervisory
board. It covers qualifications and competences of board members, as well as their independence and tenure.
What should be disclosed?
— Short bio of each of the management and supervisory board members indicating competences, qualification and background.
— Information whether a supervisory board member is independent or not.
Additional considerations and resources
For more guidance on corporate governance matters please refer to WSE’s corporate governance code “Good Practices of Companies
Listed on WSE 2021”, and the G20 / OECD Principles of Corporate Governance
ESG Reporting Guidelines 42
Business Ethics Standards
Business ethics refer to organizational principles that serve as guidelines for the way a business conducts itself and its operations. Business
ethics standards define the extent to which companies conduct business ethically, and in line with applicable laws and accepted norms. It is
a critical component of long-term value creation.
Relevance to investors / issuers
Investors are interested in companies that:
— have embedded strong ethical standards in their everyday operations
— regularly assess compliance with internal standards of conduct and take corrective actions accordingly
— work to increase employee awareness of related topics and provide them with appropriate channels to raise concerns
Recommended disclosures:
Code Indicator name Unit
EU legislation Other frameworks
NFRD SFDR GRI SASB Other
Minimum disclosures (applicable to all sectors)
G-M2 Business Ethics Policy Description • • 102-16 • -
G-M3 Anti-Corruption Policy Description • • 205 • -
G-M4 Whistle-Blower Mechanism Description • • 102-17 • *
* EU Whistleblower Protection Directive
Business ethics standards KPIs
Minimum Disclosure
G M2
Business ethics standards
Business Ethics Policy
Definition:
A business ethics policy (also called code of conduct or code of ethics) is a formal document outlining standards of ethics and responsible
business conduct to which the company commits itself. The policy clarifies the company’s values and principles and provides guidelines of
behaviour for employees (and third parties).
What should be disclosed?
— Whether the company has a business ethics policy. The policy should be accessible internally and externally.
G M3
Business ethics standards
Business Ethics Policy
Definition:
Anti-corruption policy is a formal document outlining the company’s position on bribery and corruption. It can have a stand-alone format or
be integrated into a wider set of company standards of conduct such as a code of ethics or a code of conduct as described above.
What should be disclosed?
— Whether the company has an anti-corruption policy that extends to suppliers and business partners.
ESG Reporting Guidelines 43
It is recommended that the policy:
— outlines the company position regarding bribery and corruption, conflict of interest and facilitation payments
— defines what is understood by each of the terms above
— provides a clear explanation and examples of what is acceptable and non‐acceptable behaviour
— is communicated internally and externally
G M4
Business ethics standards
Whistle-blower Procedure
Definition:
A whistle-blower procedure (also called grievance mechanism) is a system that enables reporting of suspected or actual violations of rules or
misconduct. It can be internally operated by a company (e.g. a dedicated email) or managed by an independent third-party.
What should be disclosed?
— Whether the company has a whistle-blower procedure in place. The methods for reporting a violation or concern (e.g. dedicated email,
reporting hotline, etc.) along with the process for handling of the report should also be disclosed.
It is recommended that the whistle-blower procedure:
— allows the reporting of violations anonymously and without fear of retaliation
— is available to suppliers and third parties
Data Security and Privacy
Data privacy is about the rights of individuals such as employees, customers and partners with respect to their personal information. Data
security focuses on protecting the personal data from any unauthorised third-party access.
Relevance to investors / issuers
Investors are interested in companies that:
— comply with data privacy regulations
— ensure end-customers’ and business-to-business customers’ privacy protection
— limit data security risks and protects the company from related financial losses
 Recommended disclosures:
Code Indicator name Unit
EU legislation Other frameworks
NFRD SFDR GRI SASB Other
Sector-specific disclosures
G-S1 Data Security Policy Description - - 418 • -
ESG Reporting Guidelines 44
DATA SECURITY & PRIVACY KPIs
Sector-specific Disclosures
S S1
Data security & privacy
Data Security Policy
Definition:
Data security seeks to protect employees’, customers’ or partners’ data and prevent unauthorised access to it. Data security includes
data privacy which is related to a proper handling of data (data collection, processing, storage and usage). A data security policy aims to
implement, guide and monitor the secure handling of the company’s data.
What should be disclosed?
— Whether the company has a cyber and data security policy in place.
A comprehensive data security policy:
— details the scope of data protection
— describes cyber and data security risk management arrangements like protocols, roles and responsibilities (for instance cyber/
information security team), reporting and performance monitoring
— outlines security protocols to ensure adequate protection from intrusions, data breaches, unauthorised access, malicious content and
other attacks
ESG Reporting Guidelines 45
Overview of indicators
Code Name Type Definition Unit Alignment
Environmental
Climate Change
E-M1 GHG Emissions Quantitative Direct and indirect emissions (scope 1 , 2 and 3) resulting from company activities tCO2eq NFRD, SFDR, TCFD, GRI, CDP
E-M2 Energy Consumption Quantitative Energy consumed (purchased and self-generated) within an organisation MWh NFRD, SFDR, TCFD, GRI, CDP
E-M3 Climate Risks & Opportunities Qualitative Approach for identifying and managing climate-related risks and opportunities - NFRD, TCFD, GRI, CDP
E-S1 Emissions Intensity Quantitative Ratio of CO2 emissions per unit of economic activity tCO2eq NFRD, SFDR, TCFD, GRI, CDP
E-S2 Emissions Management Qualitative Process an organisation follows to manage and mitigate its GHG emissions - NFRD, TCFD, GRI, CDP
Natural Resources
E-S3 Water Consumption Quantitative Total volume of water consumed by the organisation m3 NFRD, GRI, SASB
E-S4 Water Management Qualitative Process a company has implemented to optimise its water consumption - NFRD, SFDR. GRI, SASB
E-S5 Biodiversity impacts Qualitative Any negative impact on biodiversity and process for managing and mitigating it - NFRD, SFDR, GRI, SASB
Waste and Pollution
E-S6 E-S6 Waste Management Qual. &
Quant.
Total amount of hazardous and non-hazardous waste generated
Set of activities to monitor, manage and reduce waste produced by an organisation # NFRD, SFDR, GRI, SASB
Social
Diversity
S-M1 Board Diversity Quantitative Proportion of board members by gender and by age group % NFRD, SFDR, GRI, SASB, WSE
CG
S-M2 Gender Pay Gap Quantitative Difference between the average gross remuneration of men and women within an
organisation % NFRD, SFDR, GRI, SASB, WSE
CG
Working Conditions
S-M3 Employee Turnover Quantitative Proportion of employees that have left an organisation during the fiscal year % NFRD, GRI, SASB
S-M4 Freedom of Association and
Collective Bargaining Quantitative Proportion of active workforce covered by collective bargaining agreements % NFRD, GRI, SASB
S-S1 Employee Health and Safety Qual. &
Quant.
Set of activities and procedures a company has implemented to prevent accidents and
injuries in the workplace # NFRD, GRI, SASB
Human Rights
S-M5 Human Rights Policy Qualitative Whether the company has a human rights policy in place and description - NFRD, SFDR, GRI, SASB
S-M6 Human Rights Due Diligence Qualitative Set of activities to identify, mitigate and act upon actual and potential risks of human rights
violation - NFRD, SFDR, GRI, SASB
Governance
Corporate governance
G-M1 Board Composition Qualitative Information on characteristics of the company’s highest governance bodies - GRI
Business Integrity
G-M2 Business Ethics Standards Qualitative Whether the company has a business ethics policy in place and description - NFRD, SFDR, SASB
G-M3 Anti-corruption Policy Qualitative Whether the company has an anti-corruption policy in place and description - NFRD, SFDR, GRI, SASB
G-M4 Whistle-blower Mechanism Qualitative Whether the company has a whistle-blower procedure in place and description - NFRD, SFDR, SASB
Privacy & Data Security
G-S1 Data Security Policy Qualitative Whether the company has a cyber and data security policy in place and description - GRI, SASB
ESG Reporting Guidelines 46
Part 3
Annexes
ESG Reporting Guidelines 47
Annex A: Main international reporting guidelines and frameworks
Category Framework Description
EU legislation
SFDR
The Sustainable Finance Disclosure Regulations introduces a set
of disclosure requirements for financial market participants and financial
advisers to prevent greenwashing and increase market transparency
NFRD
The Non-Financial Reporting Directive requires large companies to
disclose non-financial and diversity information in their annual reports and
on their website. Currently being revised, see proposal for a Corporate
Sustainability Reporting Directive (CSRD)
EU Taxonomy
The EU Taxonomy aims to facilitate sustainable investment thanks to a
classification system helping companies to define whether their economic
activities are environmentally sustainable
Reporting standards
and frameworks
GRI
The Global Reporting Initiative helps any organisation (regardless
of size, sector or location) to start reporting on their impacts on the
economy, the society or the environment thanks to reporting guidance,
information and support.
SASB
The Sustainability Accounting Standards Board sets standards to
guide companies disclosing financial materiality sustainability information
to their investors.
IIRC
The International Integrated Reporting Council helps organisation
explains how they create financial and non-financial value through concise
and integrated reporting.
TCFD
The Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures seeks to
improve and increase reporting of climate-related financial information to
investors, lenders, insurers and other stakeholders.
CDP CDP provides questionnaires and scores companies based on their
journey through disclosure and towards environment leadership.
CDSB
The Climate Disclosure Standards Board Framework sets out an
approach for reporting environmental and climate change information in
mainstream reports, such as annual reports or integrated report.
IFRS
In 2021, the Trutees of the IFRS Foundation published two documents
in relation to their project on sustainability reporting. It includes an
Exposure Draft outlining the proposed targeted amendments to the IFRS
Foundation to set IFRS sustainability standards.
Reporting related
 initiatives
UNGC The UN Global Compact sets a set if 10 principles to help companies
operating in ways that, at a minimum, meet fundamental responsibilities.
SDG
The Sustainable Development Goals are a set of 17 goals adopted
by all UN member states in 2015, as part of the 2030 Agenda for
Sustainable Development.
ESG Reporting Guidelines 48
Annex B: EU regulations
NFRD (Directive 2014/95/EU)
Who: Large companies with more than
500 employees
What: Require transparency on
sustainability risks The revised version
aims to strengthen foundations for
sustainable investment
Where: Non financial & governance
statements with management report,
website
When: Revised version April 2021
(Proposal for a Corporate Sustainability
Reporting Directive)
Under review or development
supplement
(1) EU taxonomy (Regulation (EU)
2020/852)
Who: Financial market participants
(under SFDR scope) and large
companies (under NFRD scope)
What: Define environmentally
sustainable economic activities through
six environmental objectives
Where: Periodic reports, pre-contractual
disclosures and on websites
When: 12 July 2020
Published
Covered topics
THE EUROPEAN GREEN DEAL FINANCING SUSTAINABLE GROWTH ACTION PLAN
(2) SFDR (Regulation (EU)
2019/2088)
Who: For financial market participants
and investment advisers
What: Disclosure on sustainability risks
in investment decision-making process
Where: Periodic reports, pre-contractual
disclosures and on websites
When: 10 March 2021
Guidelines on
non financial
reporting
— Not legally
binding
— Key
principles &
KPIs
Environment
Social &
employment
Human rights
Anti corruption
& bribery
Board diversity
Double
materiality
perspective*
Climate
related risks &
opportunities
Additional
guidelines:
Climate
related
— Not legally
binding
— Aligned with
TCFD
Technical Screening criteria
— Criteria defining contribution to each
objective
— For CC mitigation & adaptation:
January 2022
— For the other four objectives:
January 2023
Regulatory Technical Standards
(RTS)
— Legally binding with the SFDR
— Metrics, templates and
methodologies
— Publication date 2021
Climate change mitigation & adaptation
Use & protection of water and marine
resources,
Transition to a circular economy
Pollution prevention & control
Protection & restoration of biodiversity &
ecosystems
Climate, environment
Social, employment
Human rights
Anti-corruption & bribery
LEGEND:
ESG Reporting Guidelines 49
Annex C: Reference list
EU legislation
Non-financial Reporting Directive (NFRD) Directive 2014/95/EU
(link)
Corporate Sustainability Reporting Directive (revised NFRD) (link)
Guidelines on non-financial reporting (2017) (link)
Guidelines on non-financial reporting: Supplement on reporting
climate-related information (2019) (link)
Sustainable Finance Disclosure Regulation (SFDR) (link)
EU Taxonomy Regulations and delegated acts (link)
EU Whistle-blowers directive (link)
Framework for Communication action in the field of water policy
Directive 2000/60/EC (link)
Assessment of the effects of public and private projects on the
environment Directive 2011/92/EU (link)
Polish legislation/supporting document
Polish Accounting Act transposing Non-financial Reporting
Directive (link)
Regulation of the Minister of Finance (from May 25th, 2016) on
current and periodic disclosures
Ministry of Finance website for further information on the NFRD
(link)
Publication of RBF prepared in consultation with the Ministry of
Finance on NFRD (link)
Reporting standards and framework
Standard Informacji Niefinansowej (SIN) with annexes (link)
The Global Reporting Initiative (link)
The Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (link)
The International Integrated Reporting Council (link)
The Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (link)
CDP (link)
Climate Disclosure Standards Board (link)
Good practices and guidelines
General guidelines
Good Practices of Companies Listed on WSE 2021 (link)
UN Guiding Principles Reporting Framework (link), in Polish
OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises (link)
Environmental guidelines
UN Convention on Biological Diversity (link)
Transition Pathway Initiative (link)
Science-Based Targets Initiative (link)
CEO Water Mandate (link)
WRI Aqueduct, water risk atlas tool (link)
Social guidelines
Guidelines principles on business and human rights (link)
ILO Conventions and Recommendations (link)
The International Bill of Human Rights (link)
World Benchmarking Alliance, Corporate Human Rights
Benchmark Methodology (link)
United Nations Global Compact, Guide on How to Develop a
Human Rights Policy (link)
Corporate and Governance guidelines
G20 / OECD Principles of Corporate Governance (link)
Other
UN Global Compact (link)
World Economic Forum, Global Risks Report 2021 (link)
World Economic Forum, Measuring Stakeholder Capitalism
Towards Common Metrics and Consistent Reporting of
Sustainable Value Creation, White Paper, 2020 (link)
S&P Global, Daniel J. Sandberg, When Women Lead, Firms Win
(link)
EFRAG, Proposal for a relevant and dynamic EU sustainability
reporting standard-setting (link)
ESG Reporting Guidelines 50
Context and Overview
Background and investor objectives
These ESG Reporting Guidelines support companies listed on
the Polish stock exchange in their ESG reporting practices. They
provide clarity on various ESG topics, how these may apply to
different sectors, specific indicators to be used, and a step-bystep guide for the ESG reporting process. While the reporting
companies benefit by better identifying, understanding and
managing their ESG risks, investors can also derive value by better
understanding the companies and their value potential.
Investors seek to have as complete and good understanding as
possible of companies, their performance, risk exposures, and
future outlook. In addition to using financial analysis, ESG reporting
can complement and improve the understanding of a company
and its long-term potential value, either where there is a direct
bearing on value at risk, or where it may be a broader reflection of
general operational or managerial excellence.
ESG factors covered
The number of ESG topics can be overwhelming. To provide
guidance, structure and priority to the ESG reporting, a limited
number of ESG topics have been defined in these Guidelines.
Furthermore, to make both the reporting for companies, and
the ESG reporting analysis for investors better and easier, there
is a defined set of minimum disclosure requirements. These are
effectively independent from sector-specific ESG matters as
illustrated in Table 3.
ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE
Sustainability Governance (overarching indicator)
Climate Change Diversity Corporate Governance
M GHG Emissions M Board Diversity M Board Composition
M Energy Consumption M Gender Pay Gap Ratio Business Integrity
M Climate Risks & Opportunities Working Conditions M Business Ethics Standards
S Emission Intensity M Employee Turnover M Anti-corruption Policy
S Emissions Management M Freedom of Association and
Collective Bargaining M Whistle-blower Mechanism
Natural Resources S Employee Health and Safety Data Security and Privacy
S Water Consumption Human Rights S Data Security Policy
S Water Management M Human Rights Policy
S Biodiversity Impacts M Human Rights Due Diligence
Waste and Pollution
S Waste Management
Green revenue indicator (to further align with taxonomy requirements)
Table 3 Recommended ESG metrics
Annex D: Relevance to investors of the ESG Reporting Guidelines
However, just like when interpreting financial statements, ESG
reporting and issues differ widely between different sectors. The
health and safety aspects in industrials and manufacturing are
obvious, just like data security and client information sensitivity
in the health care and financial services sectors. For that reason,
the Guidelines also contain an overview table – of benefit to
companies and investors alike – to understand which additional
ESG risks may be material or relevant to disclose for a particular
company.
Interpretation of disclosures
First, investors should develop an understanding of which risks
they consider material for a potential investment. If a prospective
company leaves out reporting on supposedly core ESG matters,
that should raise questions and potentially concerns. If the
company on the other hand explains the reason for leaving it out,
such concerns may then dissipate.
ESG Reporting Guidelines 51
Second, analysing corporate ESG reporting and performance
should be done from a comparative angle – with other companies
in the same or similar sectors, and within as well as outside the
specific country or market.
Third, the Guidelines are a support for the investment process
and decision, but not a replacement for analysis and independent
thought. In a similar vein, the primary data provided by the
companies in their respective ESG reporting is an important source
of information. However, while it complements the investor’s data
to be analysed, it neither replaces nor is replaced by external ESG
company specific data, ratios and information.
Benefits for investors
Asset owners and managers can have many different reasons for
integrating sustainability and ESG data in their investment and
portfolio management processes. For investors it is important to
understand which reasons are the most relevant for them, and to
integrate this data accordingly in their operations.
I. Complying with fiduciary or regulatory requirements
Regulations are on the increase: The NFRD came into place in
Poland in 2017, and a revised version will be published during
2021. Meanwhile the EU Taxonomy outlines disclosure obligations
for financial market participants under the scope of the SFDR
and companies under the scope of the NFRD, gaining full legal
application by 2023. These and other developments are discussed
in more detail in Chapter 1. Hence, investors will need to consider
and disclose some ESG data stipulated in these regulations.
II. Meeting client, market and other stakeholder demands
Many investors view ESG risk management as essential to handle
broader reputational risks – to new and existing clients, to local
communities surrounding portfolio companies, and to clients of
the portfolio companies’ products and services. Being aware of
the risk exposures, comfortable with how they are handled by a
company, and prepared in case a risk materialises is part of sound
investment management.
In addition, communicating such awareness may provide
an advantage over other investors in attracting and retaining
institutional and individual clients with increasingly higher demands
on sustainability integration, such as institutionally specific climate
targets, alignment with the Paris Agreement, and goals tied to the
Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) 2030 Agenda.
III. Complementing the financial analysis with ESG analysis
ESG reporting can complement traditional financial analysis by
providing a more comprehensive coverage of risk exposures.
Climate resilience, regulatory risks and demands, reputational
risks, supply chain operations and practices and other ESG topics
do not form part of financial analysis, but they do have a potential
to impact a company’s operations, profitability and value.
In addition, the ESG reporting from companies reveals how they
perceive their risk exposure – which are the material risks, how
are they managed, and how are they performing. Just like other
strategic and tactical analyses and decisions, the ESG reporting
can complement an investor’s view of how well managed a
company is.
IV. Improving investment decisions
While some ESG factors are difficult to quantify others are not. And
regardless of whether they are quantified or not, those ESG factors
that are deemed material in terms of their impact on a company
need to be considered in investment decisions.
For those factors that are either quantifiable, or whose impacts on
a company may have financial repercussions could also impact
valuations. This could happen via various channels like adjusted
forecast financials (revenues, operating costs, capital expenditure),
adjusted valuation models (discount rates, terminal values), and
credit risk adjustments.
Furthermore, taking these factors together across a portfolio may
also lead to shifting of strategic and tactical asset allocations
– either by taking the risks and related valuation impacts into
account, or more proactively by including thematic or ESG
objective tilts.
V. Facilitating consistency and comparability across
markets
The increased amount of ESG reporting resulting from these
Guidelines will improve data availability to investors. Furthermore,
the alignment of the ESG indicators to be used and the setting
of core/minimum reporting requirements will make reporting and
performance comparisons between companies easier.
This applies both to comparing companies in the Polish market
and those in other markets since the ESG indicators are aligned
with broadly established and recognised international standards.
This includes alignment with NFRD on disclosures, with the TCFD
recommendations on climate-related disclosure in particular, the
integration of the EU Taxonomy requirements, and the SFDR ASI
core indicators.
