SPANISH STOCK EXCHANGE’S
VOLUNTARY MARKET GUIDANCE
FOR LISTED COMPANIES FOR
CORPORATE REPORTING ON
ESG INFORMATION
BME
Spanish stock exchange’s
Voluntary Market Guidance for
Listed Companies for Corporate
Reporting on ESG Information
2
Why is Environmental,
Sustainability and Corporate
Governance (ESG) reporting
important?
Environmental, Sustainability and Corporate
Governance (ESG) issues are grounded in the
premise that public and private organisations as
well as individuals have commitments to society.
Investors who tend to have a longer investment
time horizon increasingly examine business issues
related to ESG factors. Thus, financial performance
is no longer the only measure of a company’s value
and a good equity investment.
Pressures to manage and disclose environmental
and social issues material to the business may
come from stakeholders, the directors or trustees
of issuers, senior management and/or employees.
They see positive bottom line benefits—for example,
cost savings, increased revenue streams through
innovative products, an advantage in attracting,
retaining and motivating employees, improved risk
management, enhanced reputation and customer
loyalty.
They increasingly consider the bottom line impacts
that these factors can have on revenues, costs,
product offerings, customer and employee loyalty,
reputation and governmental and regulatory
approvals. They also want to understand if the
issuer has business opportunities and competitive
advantages related to environmental and social
issues.
They may look beyond the issuer, too, and consider
how environmental and social issues might impact
the issuer’s supply chain and thereby potentially
impact the issuer’s reputation and/or ability to
source needed inputs on a timely basis.
These are the principles that underlie responsible
investment, whose ultimate goal is to identify the
risks and opportunities associated with a specific
company or segment, thereby refining the asset
pricing process.
To integrate ESG information into investment
decision-making activities, investors want
high-quality and relevant data to assess company
risks and opportunities relative to peers.
INTRODUCTION
3
BME
Spanish stock exchange’s
Voluntary Market Guidance for
Listed Companies for Corporate
Reporting on ESG Information
Another driver of responsible investment is the
growing supply of products and services to help
investors manage portfolios, and at the same time
to disseminate best practices among business
organisations. Sustainability indexes and special
listing segments on securities exchanges, as well
as research firms and rating agencies that specialise
in ESG have expanded exponentially.
Because of their involvement with a wide array
of market participants, exchanges in particular
increasingly play the role of protagonists in
defining the rules and best practices that reflect
the aspiration of these participants and of society
as a whole. They encourage companies to adopt
best practices in corporate governance, supporting
the creation of new markets, and building a social
agenda.
Companies understand that improving long-term
shareholder value is achievable by including
sustainability into their long-term strategy and
by disclosing fully their sustainability performance
to investors. Here stock exchanges and listing
authorities have a crucial role to:
•	 Encourage better internal corporate
governance within companies, such as improving
the independence and quality of boards of
directors
•	 Consult with companies on how they should be
integrating sustainability into long-term strategic
decision-making
•	 Share guidance for companies on material
sustainability issues, global initiatives and other
opportunities that encourage ESG disclosure; and
•	 on material sustainability issues, global
initiatives and other opportunities that
encourage ESG disclosure; and on the
sustainability report or strategy.
How exchanges can contribute
to the ESG cause
BME
Spanish stock exchange’s
Voluntary Market Guidance for
Listed Companies for Corporate
Reporting on ESG Information
4
BME’s contribution
to ESG
In the case of BME, as the operator of the Spanish
stock exchange, the company gears its management
towards obtaining an optimal performance from
all the assets at its disposal in a responsible and
sustainable manner.
As a result of this corporate vision, since 2006 BME
has joined several international initiatives in the area
of sustainability which contain commitments and
principles that add to and complement those that
emanate from its corporate vision. These initiatives
are as follows:
• The European Code of Conduct for Clearing and
Settlement (since 2006)
• The Carbon Disclosure Project (since 2007)
• The Code of Best Tax Practices (since 2010)
• The United Nations Global Compact (since 2011)
• United Nations SSE Initiative (since 2015)
As a natural consequence of its commitment
to sustainable development, BME is constantly
deepening its understanding of its contribution
to society and promoting initiatives designed to
ensure that sustainability is an integral part of its
management, products, services and relationships.
Stakeholder engagement, education and
information are key elements of this effort.
The promotion of corporate sustainability
permeates through the whole senior leadership.
This effort to spread sustainability awareness
throughout all layers of the company is shared by
the senior managers throughout the group.
BME’s view of sustainability is based on our
commitment to companies, investors and all other
parties involved in securities markets, including
to society at large. In this regard, BME’s primary
responsibility is constantly to strengthen the key
attributes of a sound and efficient stock market:
transparency, integrity, innovation, education and
investor protection, especially protection
of individual investors.
BME aims to advance sustainability in our markets
through projects that encourage companies to
adopt socially responsible business practices as
well as through training, which is regarded as a
cornerstone for the sustainable development of a
financial market.
In 2015 BME joined the Sustainable Stock
Exchanges (SSE) Initiative, which is co-organised
by UNCTAD, the UN-Global Compact, the UNsupported Principles for Responsible Investment
and the UNEP Finance Initiative. Launched in 2009
by UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon, the SSE
initiative is a peer-to-peer learning platform for
exploring how exchanges (in collaboration with
policymakers, regulators, investors and companies)
can promote transparency among listed companies
– and in turn their efficiency – in connection with
corporate governance and social and environmental
responsibility, as well as promoting responsible
investment.
Based on this model, by publishing its own Voluntary
Market Guidance for Corporate Reporting on ESG
Information BME strengthens its commitment to
fostering business sustainability in Spain and to
offer examples for similar action by other exchanges
worldwide.
5
BME
Spanish stock exchange’s
Voluntary Market Guidance for
Listed Companies for Corporate
Reporting on ESG Information
The race to make sustainability
part of the business agenda is a
race without a finishing line. New
demands will arise every day, leading
to a process of permanent evolution.
On the other hand, while specific
issues may be more significant for
certain economic sectors, generating
a greater or less impact on business,
there is a range of basic criteria that
apply to all business activities.
10 RECOMMENDATIONS
TOWARD SUSTAINABILITY
The purpose of the following
recommendations is precisely to
describe these criteria and point out
the best practices for each one, so
as to help companies reflect on their
practices and find ways of improving
them still further regardless of the stage
they are currently at in the process of
incorporating sustainability.
Para que la agenda sobre sostenibilidad
BME
Spanish stock exchange’s
Voluntary Market Guidance for
Listed Companies for Corporate
Reporting on ESG Information
6
If the sustainability agenda is to be effective and add
value for your company, the decision to implement
it must come from top management. It is the
board’s responsibility to define and control key
topics and key performance indicators that reflect
the company’s economic, environmental, social
and governance impacts.
Adopting sustainability as a business strategy often
entails a cultural change, which is why it must be
championed by the leaders of the organization.
Their job is to explain its significance and support
any adjustments required. This means that senior
management needs to set the sustainability agenda
and make sure that line organisations understand
and embrace the goals that have been set and the
targets that have been agreed. A proof point may
be whether a board member is able to explain
sustainability data and their business implications
in a one-on-one situation.
Ideally this should happen as a result of a strategic
planning process, so that sustainability is put on the
organisation’s agenda. Its aspirations should always
go beyond compliance with the law and extend to
new business development.
A sustainability diagnosis is a must. It will detect
any gaps in the company and serve as a basis for
a short-, medium- and long-term action plan.
This process will also pinpoint the areas in which
the organisation requires alignment and identify
the existing structures, processes and systems that
should be kept because they are already adequate
to the new strategy.
An assessment of your corporate documents,
organisational structure and management system
is a good place to start. But it’s also crucial to look
at more tacit areas in the organisational culture by
interviewing managers in all areas and consulting
with stakeholders.
There are several consulting firms that specialise
in this type of service, helping companies identify
opportunities and areas for improvement. On the
other hand, this is an exercise that can also be done
in house. For example, you can set up a committee
with representatives of several departments to
discuss the sustainability agenda.
The company can also sign up to voluntary global
standards and commitments for the industry or
market in which it operates. The most important
point is that diagnosis and assessment should
become a regular exercise for the organization.
Start by involving
top management 1
2
Find out what
needs to change
BME
Spanish stock exchange’s
Voluntary Market Guidance for
Listed Companies for Corporate
Reporting on ESG Information
7
It will usually help to take a look at the GRI
Aspects and Indicators as well as the GRI Sector
Supplements, where you will find a broad range
of possible material issues.
Typically, the organisation can efficiently identify
between four and eight material issues, but the
number varies depending on the size of the firm, its
sector, its market niche, and its maturity in terms of
the work already done on the sustainability agenda.
It is important to note that material issues should
be identified case by case and reviewed at
predetermined intervals, which can be once a
year or every two years, for example.
A number of collective commitments, which may
be general or sectoral, can also help your company
formulate a sustainability strategy and develop
management processes in this direction, as well as
including it in a network of learning and interaction
with stakeholders. For instance, BME made a public
commitment to sustainability in 2015 when it joined
the UN - SSE Initiative and in 2016, when it made a
Voluntary Commitment to publish its own Voluntary
Market Guidance for Corporate Reporting on ESG
information by the end of the year 2016.
The U.N. Global Compact, launched in 2000, which
BME joined in 2011, is yet another example. It
requires signatories to commit to ten internationally
accepted principles in human rights, labor relations,
environmental management and corruption
prevention.
4
Make public
commitments
The next step following diagnosis is to establish
priorities. This should be done according to
materiality. The materiality of the content is a key
factor in reporting sustainability information.
If the principle of materiality is ignored, there is
a risk of reporting too much information on the
one hand, or irrelevant information on the other.
Both of these make it difficult for investors to
draw conclusions from the reported data. This
recommendation helps to define and recognise
materiality.
The concept of materiality is widely used in law and
accounting, and is also increasingly applied to the
definition of corporate sustainability agendas and
strategies. An issue is said to be material when it
has a significant impact on a company’s financial
performance and/or on its image and reputation.
In other words, a sustainability issue can be
considered material when it is important and a
priority for stakeholders, for commercial viability
and/or for efficient administration of the company.
Set
priorities
3
BME
Spanish stock exchange’s
Voluntary Market Guidance for
Listed Companies for Corporate
Reporting on ESG Information
8
We also suggest your company relies on the work of
a Sustainability Committee, made up of members
of the Board of Directors responsible for developing
and overseeing the implementation of sustainability
strategy and guidelines, as well as monitoring
performance and decision making. The department
heads and managers should then be responsible for
assuring coordinated execution of the sustainability
actions established by the said committee, as well as
for an exchange of information among departments
and business units.
Depending on the size of the organisation, the
facilitator may be a professional in the field or even
a sustainability structure in the organisation chart,
and should have access to top management, albeit
not necessarily reporting to the CEO. Depending
on the sector and the maturity of the company’s
sustainability agenda, the sustainability facilitator
or team is typically subordinated to one of the
following departments:
• Financial / Risk
• Corporate Affairs
• Communication
• Human Resources
• Operations
When you reach this stage, you’ll realise your
organisation is no longer the same as it was when
the journey began. Inserting sustainability into
strategy and management undoubtedly influences
your objectives and stakeholder relations.
This is an excellent point at which to check whether
the company’s identity, its mission, vision and
values, reflects its new commitments. If not, it
may be the right time to propose adaptations.
6
Check identity
Balancing economic, social and environmental
results entails addressing dilemmas and making
decisions for the long term as well as the short term.
To do all this, it’s necessary to create a governance
structure for sustainability encompassing all levels
of the organisation.
How many instances are needed to implement this
agenda, enabling new initiatives to be developed,
practices enhanced and the entire organisation
aligned, will depend on the size of the organization
and how it’s structured. However, the Board of
Directors (top management) should be given
final responsibility for these decisions.
Another recommendation is that outsiders should
be invited to sit on the committees involved. They
can be representatives of important stakeholders
and/or experts on the subject.
Establish
Sustainability Governance
5
BME
Spanish stock exchange’s
Voluntary Market Guidance for
Listed Companies for Corporate
Reporting on ESG Information
9
expectations. It enables a company to react in good
time and to adapt its corporate strategy to the
needs of society and changing values.
Stakeholder dialogue also offers guidance for
identifying the content of sustainability reporting.
Investors’ needs regarding the type and content of
information, including the way such information is
disclosed, should be decisive; other stakeholders
such as clients, regulators and representatives
of civil society should also be taken into account,
based on their relevant importance. Investors /
analysts are interested in sustainability information
in relation to the company’s financial reporting;
sustainability information is useful for an investor
only if it fits into other strategic information relevant
for an investment decision, such as an assessment
of risks and opportunities.
Disclosure content should not just be available
on demand. Integrating ESG data into general
information can only add value for stakeholders if
they are aware that this information exists. Hence,
sustainability information should be an integral part
of general corporate information communicated
via established corporate communication channels.
This should also include investor relations: investor
relations officers should be aware of economic,
environmental and social value drivers.
In the future, investor relations will increasingly
have the opportunity (but will also be faced with
the task) of explaining a company’s capital market
story using arguments from the field of ESG. This
requires a reliable database, measurable goals and
comparable figures.
As already noted, this dialogue is an essential
part of the process of identifying material issues.
Engagement and dialogue should be the job of
both operating units and the corporate level. In the
former case, the stakeholders are typically members
of the surrounding community, suppliers and local
customers, as well as other regional players.
Corporate engagement will be with government,
regulators, major customers and partners,
representatives of employees and contractors, and
civil society.
In both cases, however, the identification and
prioritisation of stakeholders should follow a
specific methodology and take into consideration:
• Responsibility
• Influence
• Proximity
• Dependency
• Representativity
Corporate and Social Responsibility and
sustainability reporting cater for the needs of
many stakeholders with differing requirements
and expectations in terms of topics, as well as
the format and granularity of data. As a subset of
the general sustainability audience, investors and
financial analysts are economic stakeholders with
distinct needs and expectations who are primarily
interested in those ESG factors that are material,
i.e. which have a significant impact on the
company’s value.
Analyse stakeholder interests
By engaging and dialoguing with stakeholders, the
company will acquire a better understanding of how
its activities impact the environment and society.
This is of great utility in developing ways to mitigate
or offset any negative impacts.
An analysis of relevant stakeholders’ concerns and
interests helps to explore stakeholder expectations
and adapt to subsequent changes. Maintaining
a dialogue and engagement with important
stakeholders is critical for tracing those (changing)
Engage with
stakeholders
7
BME
Spanish stock exchange’s
Voluntary Market Guidance for
Listed Companies for Corporate
Reporting on ESG Information
10
to evaluate sustainability profiles. In particular,
institutional investors buy sustainability data
for their own evaluation tools. Thus, the more
accurate and up-to-date the company profile is,
the better investors / analysts will be informed
about that company’s sustainability performance.
Companies should therefore be familiar with the
primary sources used by capital market relevant
stakeholders to obtain sustainability information
for their investment decisions. Companies should
prioritise the sources and provide them with
timely and accurate news about their sustainability
performance.
Expert Panel
Setting up an Expert Panel is a more focused way
to identify and prioritise material issues. Experts in
aspects of sustainability relevant to the company and
its sector meet periodically to discuss a structured
agenda under the watchful eyes of the organization’s
senior executives. Ideally the experts should be
capable of reflecting what stakeholders want as
well as contributing technical views. The results of
these meetings should feed into the organization’s
business strategy and serve as a compass for the
sustainability action plan.
For any corporate strategy to be successful,
alignment of the entire organisation is indispensable,
so that everyone is on the same page and working to
achieve the same goals.
This applies a fortiori to the implementation of
a sustainability agenda.
But how to guarantee this alignment? Time and
resources have to be invested in creating a new
corporate culture that reflects the commitments
made to further the sustainability agenda.
Various initiatives can be introduced to attain this
goal, such as developing and upgrading training
programs that deal with social and environmental
issues, reviewing and disseminating the code of
ethics, and adapting the company’s hiring procedures
to prioritise the selection of candidates who already
have an affinity with the agenda.
Employee awareness can also be raised, and internal
stakeholders engaged with generally, by means
of communication campaigns that highlight the
urgency of the sustainability agenda and its constant
presence in people’s everyday lives, both at work
and elsewhere.
The organisation already interacts with stakeholders
in various ways, of course, through channels such
as one-on-one or group meetings, workshops,
conferences, public hearings, councils or committees,
collective bargaining, an ombudsman and customer
care center, and so on, not to mention web-based
social networks. The point is to optimise the
existing channels and leverage them to establish
a more comprehensive structure for engaging
with stakeholders, finding out what they want,
and building all this information into strategy and
management. Here are a few examples of the
practices typically used by organisations that want to
evolve and be part of a process of engagement for
sustainability:
• Customer satisfaction surveys
• Supplier assessment and qualification
• Organizational climate surveys
• Collective bargaining
• Meetings with investors and analysts
Serve information sources of stakeholders
Information on a company’s sustainability profile
should also be made available through public
sources: Research and rating agencies use data
7
BME
Spanish stock exchange’s
Voluntary Market Guidance for
Listed Companies for Corporate
Reporting on ESG Information
11
Developing a Sustainability Policy is a key step
in translating strategies and commitments into
objectives and management guidelines. The policy
should state the organization’s aims and procedures
in sustainability management, so as to facilitate the
planning and execution of the relevant actions by
all departments and business units.
A good policy is brief, objective and disseminated to
all stakeholders, internal and external, starting with
the former.
Another option is to implement economic incentives
by including socio-environmental objectives in
performance assessment systems, with a direct
impact on variable remuneration and on employee
career paths. Departments and managers should
have goals for sustainability issues as well. These
should be balanced with economic targets to
demonstrate that the company genuinely adopts a
triple bottom line approach.
All such initiatives reinforce each other and
should be developed with the common objective
of encouraging employees at all hierarchical
levels to find and propose solutions aligned with
sustainability.
8
Develop a
Sustainability Policy
Adjust
management systems
9
As the company incorporates sustainability into its
business strategy and organisational culture, it needs
to adapt its corporate commitments and management
systems, as well as its performance assessment
system, as noted in the previous section.
New corporate policies will therefore need to be
formulated and disseminated for the relevant areas.
These include a Sustainability Policy – mentioned
earlier - (which may replace and extend existing
environmental, climate change and social policies), an
Intangible Asset Policy, and a Risk Policy (including
regulatory and image risks), among others. These
policies require management systems to monitor their
implementation via processes and procedures, and
by selecting and computing appropriate indicators.
Processes and procedures are important in this stage
of strategy development, because they ensure that the
commitments made will be integrated into the day-today lives of employees, and even those of third parties
if deemed necessary. They also tend to institutionalise
and enforce corporate policies, strengthening the
organisation’s culture in the sphere of sustainability
and reducing compliance risk.
Indicators are typically suggested by the company’s
“sustainability facilitator” after consulting all the main
departments and business units. They should be
computed both for the organisation as a whole
and for specific operations or activities.
The indicators should be tracked not just at the
operational level but also at the management level.
They should be periodically reported to the Board
(at least once a year).
Organisations that are beginning this process will find
the GRI Indicators helpful and an important source
of information.
BME
Spanish stock exchange’s
Voluntary Market Guidance for
Listed Companies for Corporate
Reporting on ESG Information
12
To win the trust of your stakeholders you must
be transparent. And the best way to demonstrate
transparency and accountability is by publishing
reports.
Publicly traded companies are required to publish
annual management reports and file them with
the market supervisor. These reports focus on
the company’s financial performance in the
previous year. On the other hand, more and
more organisations now also issue sustainability
reports with detailed information on non-financial
performance, especially ESG. These publications
are useful tools for stakeholder engagement and
broader social accountability, but they can also be
used as management tools, helping the organisation
monitor and report indicators and articulating
sustainability strategy, governance
and management in a consistent fashion.
Integrated reports are increasingly important,
however. These present economic, social and
environmental results in an integrated format,
ideally also reflecting an integrated strategy.
Report your achievements
and challenges
10
Revisiting materiality in your reports
When starting to prepare a report, companies
should be clear about the material issues identified
in the strategy and management development
exercise. Not everything that is material for
management purposes will be material for the
report depending on its readership, and vice-versa.
It is essential to keep the report short and concise
while addressing the most relevant issues, as this
will ensure it is read and understood, especially by
investors and market analysts. Secondary issues
and detailed explanations of more static policies
and processes should be reported only on the
company’s website and linked to the printed
report or main section on the website.
Global trends also point to increasingly frequent
use of various different types of report according
to the people each one is designed to reach.
Thus a company may opt to publish an annual
sustainability report focusing on material issues,
and supplement this report during the year with
updates to demonstrate accountability. These
statements or reports can be specifically tailored
to the needs of internal stakeholders, customers,
suppliers, communities, government etc.
Define materiality for your company
Material information in business reporting is defined
as matters that may influence the assessment of the
company’s ability to create and sustain value or that
already do so. In financial reporting, information is
considered material if its omission or misstatement
could influence decisions by the users of financial
statements. In sustainability reporting, this scope
is extended to environmental, social, political, legal
and commercial topics and indicators.
The scope, weighting and granularity of reported
topics may vary due to a company’s unique
characteristics (e.g. its business model or operating
environment), industry-specific trends, as well as the
level of a company’s sustainability performance.
To identify material information in the wide range
of topics and indicators available for ESG reporting,
companies should consider the following criteria,
among others:
What are the key value drivers of our business
process?
What are the material issues for relevant
stakeholders?
BME
Spanish stock exchange’s
Voluntary Market Guidance for
Listed Companies for Corporate
Reporting on ESG Information
13
What are the most important internal and external
factors identified as having an impact on the
company’s value creation – in both the short and
the long term?
Internal factors may include the company’s ability to
respond to changing conditions; external ones may
be political, market-related, environmental, social,
technological, or legal. Once material topics have
been identified, the task is then to prioritise them
by the magnitude of their effect on the company
and the likelihood of their occurrence, and to
present them accordingly in the report. Information
that is not material should therefore be omitted.
Employ an integrated approach to disclosing
material information
To emphasise the interdependence of financial and
non-financial information, a set of key performance
indicators should be provided in a single document.
It is important to demonstrate the linkages between
a company’s corporate strategy, its governance
model and its social, environmental and financial
performance. In short, sustainability information
should be an integral element of a company’s
reporting, rather than a set of data and targets
published / communicated separately from / not
linked to the company’s core business.
Reporting principles
To make your reports credible and effective as a
means of guaranteeing disclosure to stakeholders
in accordance with the expected standards of
transparency and accountability, as well as a tool
for internal management, you should follow the
internationally accepted guidelines developed by
the GRI. Some of the most important are set out
below.
• Balance
The report should be balanced, presenting both
positive and negative facts about the company.
Highlighting the challenges faced during the
year is positive because it is a demonstration of
transparency on the part of the organization.
• Comparability
The themes and indicators presented should
enable performance to be analysed year by
year and compared with market standards and
with companies in the same sector. The reader
should be able to understand the context for the
information.
• Reliability
The process of collecting information up until
publication of the report should be consistent,
and should permit simple checking and possibly
an external verification process.
• Precision
The information provided should be precise and
detailed enough to enable stakeholders to make
a fair assessment of the company’s performance.
The use of estimates should be duly noted and
their premises explained.
14
5 BEST
PRACTICE
STEPS
Complementing the 10
recommendations set out earlier, we
encourage issuers to follow five practical
steps for corporate sustainability
reporting which can be helpful and
are designed to support companies in
developing a more holistic, integrated
corporate reporting with the objective of
effective capital market communication.
They are divided into two sections: the
first three deal with disclosure content
(what to report), while the other two
refer to reporting principles (how to
report).
As with the 10 recommendations, no
formal obligations associated with
these steps. They are not designed to
constitute mandatory new procedures
for capital market communication
that apply to listed issuers on BME’s
platforms. Instead, they should be seen
as a useful tool in aligning the complex
issue of sustainability with the concrete
information requirements of investors
/ analysts by taking capacity constraints
at corporate level into account.
Al elaborar informes, las compañías
Al elaborar informes, las compañías
deben concentrarse en una cantidad
reducida de criterios de control contable/
financiero de la gestión. Estos deben
ser relevantes para la dirección, estar
BME
Spanish stock exchange’s
Voluntary Market Guidance for
Listed Companies for Corporate
Reporting on ESG Information
BME
Spanish stock exchange’s
Voluntary Market Guidance for
Listed Companies for Corporate
Reporting on ESG Information
15
In their reporting, companies should concentrate
on a small number of management accounting
/ financial control measures. These should be
relevant to management, linked to the corporate
strategy and illustrate the impact of ESG drivers on
the company’s financial results. They should also be
backed up by a clear description. Consideration
and / or prioritisation of the key performance
indicators (KPIs) by management will highlight
the company’s unique selling points.
With the emergence of integrated reporting (the
intelligent combination of financial and sustainability
reporting), companies are assessing the link
between non-financial data (incl. ESG) and financial
performance. The more companies focus on a small
number of compelling linkages between financials
and non-financials, and seek to describe how ESG
drives value, the more fit-for-purpose ESG aspects
will be for investors.
Company analysis by the investment community
considers and relies not just on key financial data
and economic merits, but also on the quality of
ESG-related content. Companies should provide
reliable information on material components of
value creation (financial and non-financial), critical
interdependencies between them and how those
factors are integrated into the strategy, governance
and operations of a company. Taking responsibility
seriously requires understanding the risks and
opportunities created by environmental, social
and corporate governance issues.
Communicate effective risk management
and mitigation
By paying attention to material issues for different
stakeholders, companies are better equipped to
foresee upcoming risks and to manage them when
they occur.
Managing risk – whether environmental, social,
or operational – should be an integral element of
business operations as a normal part of business
and risk culture. Systems and policies should
therefore be in place throughout all operations.
Responsible business practices can enhance
performance and reduce the cost of external
funding. Vice versa, a negative ESG-related
event could mean not just a sustained period of
underperformance and higher costs of external
funding, but may entail reputational damage,
require changes in senior management and lead to
increased regulatory activity – or even takeover.
A company is acting responsibly when it is ready
to measure and manage its impact on society and
the environment. In addition, there are several
links between good governance and a positive
value performance: greater transparency enhances
investors’ confidence and positively influences
valuations. A responsible and results-based culture
embraced by the top management as well as
tighter supervision by the Board can help avoid a
number of unfavourable strategic decisions such as
overly expensive acquisitions, poor diversification,
management short-termism etc.
Concentrate on a handful of
key indicators and explain the
link between non-financial data
and financial performance
1 2
Focus on a “risk and
return” approach
BME
Spanish stock exchange’s
Voluntary Market Guidance for
Listed Companies for Corporate
Reporting on ESG Information
16
Communicate sustainability-related business
opportunities
Companies face a wide range of challenging
business trends, e.g. scarcity of Natural resources,
new regulations, impacts of innovation and new
technologies etc. These require new solutions and
hence innovative products and services that meet
societal challenges and may therefore lay the basis
for future growth.
These sustainability-related innovations may
represent unique selling propositions and should
be communicated accordingly. Among other
things, properly managing environmental, social
and corporate governance issues strengthens
a company’s industry positioning and return on
capital. Sustainability practices are thus becoming
crucial in order to stay competitive in the future.
Highlight measures to reduce risks and leverage
opportunities
Responsible business practices not only facilitate
risk reduction but also contribute positively to
operational and share price performance. Actions
undertaken to improve the performance of the
company are therefore critical for assessing the
potential increase in the returns of the company
in the short, medium and long term. Examples of
such measures include accommodating customer
needs, increasing innovation in products, attracting
and retaining skilled labour, increasing productivity,
reducing negative impacts on the environment,
securing limited key natural resources, having
globally accepted ethical labour conditions along
the value chain etc. Furthermore, policies, training
programmes and activities directed at reducing risks
– including an anti-corruption policy, whistle-blower
programmes, good employee relations, monitoring
the value chain for key environmental and social
issues etc. – may lead to lower costs of debt and
to higher credit ratings.
All in all, higher performance, better returns, lower
risks and lower cost of capital should lead to a
higher company valuation and a better risk / return
profile.
Providers of capital assess the attractiveness of an
investment based on the quality of management,
which is by and large reflected in the quality of
the company’s corporate disclosures. Hence, it is
ultimately the responsibility of the company itself
to highlight the financial value of its sustainability
strategy. The better the quality of the information,
the more easily it can be appreciated by the market,
which in turn implies a more favourable risk-adjusted
return on the company’s shares.
BME
Spanish stock exchange’s
Voluntary Market Guidance for
Listed Companies for Corporate
Reporting on ESG Information
17
All content should be presented in a way that meets
investors’/ analysts’ requirements.
Its structure must be clear and the organisation of
the report must be comprehensive, e.g. by providing
information in form of an executive summary, with
key messages listed in a table or in bullet points.
Complement KPIs with relevant context
information
Quantitative data is better than qualitative data
because it can be compared with similar data from
other organisations. If at all possible, sustainabilityrelated data should be presented in the same
format as traditional financial information. Issuers
should therefore try to “simplify” reality in an effort
to provide hard, objective, numerical data, bearing
in mind that the language of the financial markets
should be applied when discussing sustainability
as an investment topic.
Investors / analysts with a focus on sustainability
appreciate well-arranged charts or tables indicating
the company’s ESG performance. This should
– if necessary – be accompanied by a narrative
description of why certain KPIs increased or
decreased, whether this is a good thing or a bad
thing, and an indication of the expected future
performance 3). Keep this narrative as short and
simple as possible.
Sometimes, working with qualitative information
is unavoidable. However, if a qualitative narrative
is used, it should always be supplemented by
quantitative data, benchmarks and targets.
Be as specific as possible
The metrics that are regarded as being the most
useful in corporate sustainability disclosures are
those that quantify financial impact, measure
business opportunities and risks, and are
transparent about the calculation methodology.
If a company is facing other issues that are more
difficult to quantify, information on mitigation
activities or actions designed to exploit new
opportunities would also be an alternative way
of improving disclosure.
Provide monetary information on ESG
performance, if possible
Some sustainability initiatives represent a long-term
investment on the part of a company and it may
be difficult to measure their effects immediately
in monetary terms. However, there is always a
business case for sustainability. It can be explored
by linking the ESG perspective to the financial
(fundamental) perspective and vice versa. Whenever
possible, explain how ESG performance and
financial performance influence each other.
Define specific measurable ESG targets
In their annual reporting, companies should define
measurable targets using both absolute data
(e.g. total tons of CO 2 per year) as well as ratios
(e.g. kilograms of CO 2 per passenger kilometre)
for their material topics. Also targets link the ESG
perspective with the economic dimension of
sustainability (e.g. sustainability related products as
a percentage of total sales). In general, sustainability
targets should show a clear link to the optimisation
of stakeholder value, while at the same time being
consistent with the company’s long-term strategy.
Ideally, appropriate sustainability metrics should be
linked to management reward systems to increase
the credibility of the targets.
In reality, targets cannot always be achieved.
Reporting should reflect both positive and
negative aspects of an organisation’s sustainability
performance to enable a complete assessment
of its overall performance.
Provide an outlook and talk about challenges
and opportunities
Investors are interested not only in past performance
but also in the future outlook, especially as regards
expected industry trends and corporate strategies
for facing upcoming challenges. Forward-looking
sustainability metrics play a crucial role in reporting.
Investors expect companies to disclose information
on how they plan to sustain and create mid- to longterm value with regard to their corporate strategy.
As part of this exercise, companies should try
to assess the impact of their industry and of
market trends on the future of their sustainability
performance.
Companies should also disclose the risks they face
in meeting their sustainability targets. This should
include a definition of the risks and the way risks are
mitigated and managed.
Give preference to
quantitative data
3
BME
Spanish stock exchange’s
Voluntary Market Guidance for
Listed Companies for Corporate
Reporting on ESG Information
18
The five steps in this guide are generally applicable
to any existing standard as they substantiate the
capital market perspective. Therefore, the guide
describes how to use existing reporting standards /
guidelines / frameworks more effectively.
Build on widely acknowledged frameworks
There is a variety of standards governing
sustainability reporting available in the market and
companies have to decide which one(s) match best
to its company needs. As a consequence there
currently is a certain lack of comparability. On
the positive side, this means a lot of flexibility for
companies. However, to facilitate assessment by
investors, it is useful to build on internationally or
nationally recognised standards to make reported
KPIs comparable as far as possible.
Using standards has one great advantage. They give
companies initial guidance on which data should
be published, based on a consensus that has been
reached in years of discussions in international
multi-stakeholder forums. Such a framework
may serve as a helpful preparation / instruction
to involve other departments / colleagues in
developing a more holistic corporate reporting.
4
Refer to standards
(international /national)
Present material topics according to market
usage
Many investors and their service providers use
their own assessment criteria and questionnaires.
Hence, despite the existence of reporting standards,
companies still have to formulate and publish
their own KPIs that are relevant to their specific
industry sector and corporate strategy. Even within
standards, it is increasingly recognised that the
materiality of information differs between industry
sectors and that the disclosure of non-material
information is – at least for investors / analysts – of
no added value.
A standard should therefore be seen as general
guidance that should be thoroughly reviewed
by a company to facilitate the identification and
prioritisation of material topics as well as to
decide on relevant KPIs and disclosure usage best
reflecting its specific industry challenges
and corporate strategy.
BME
Spanish stock exchange’s
Voluntary Market Guidance for
Listed Companies for Corporate
Reporting on ESG Information
19
With regard to existing corporate reporting practice,
a coherent (combined) presentation of financial
and non-financial information instead of publishing
a separate sustainability report seems to be an
efficient solution as it offers the investor / analyst an
extensive source of information.
Forms of presentation
After identifying the material sustainability
aspects and the relevant indicators, as well as any
contextual information that needs to be reported
(e.g. benchmark data), the next question that arises
is one of presentation. Investors and analysts who
are focused on financial KPIs will prefer ESG data to
be presented in a condensed format that is clearly
arranged (table). Ideally, it should be provided
simultaneously with the (standard) financial
reporting highlighting the interdependencies.
Pay attention to
presentational issues
5
Explain changes in the selection or development
of KPIs
It is essential for companies to demonstrate the
application of a clear and consistent methodology
to any type of corporate reporting (financial,
sustainability, integrated). KPIs should be defined,
compiled and reported consistently. They
should help stakeholders to analyse changes in
sustainability performance over time and enable an
assessment relative to the company’s peers.
However, if a methodology is refined, changes
should be presented so that investors can still
draw comparisons with previous years, i.e.
companies should restate – where possible –
current disclosures alongside historical data (or vice
versa). Likewise, if a company is introducing new
KPIs or discontinuing old ones, it should disclose
the reasons for this and illustrate the benefit for
stakeholders.
20
CONCLUSION
Material ESG aspects in capital market
communication are part and parcel of today’s
investment decisions. This is because a more
comprehensive picture of a company on the one
hand helps evaluate its current risk profile and
indicates how it is prepared to mitigate future
risks. On the other hand, actively communicating
sustainability-related key figures and business
opportunities, as well as how these translate into
unique selling propositions, raises awareness of
corporate strengths and competitiveness. It allows
investors and analysts to gain a more accurate
and robust assessment of a company and its
risk and return profile. Furthermore, it delivers
additional arguments to invest in that company
and increases confidence and trust. Sustainability
disclosure tends to become a major principle
for state-of-the-art corporate communication,
providing for a well-balanced capital market story.
The 10 recommendations, including the 5 best
practice examples, illustrate an approach that
aims to achieve more holistic corporate reporting,
using limited resources that will effectively meet
the needs of the capital markets.
The challenge is:
•	 to identify a small number of KPIs that are
relevant for management and evaluation
purposes;
•	 ideally, to present them using quantitative
metrics, providing relevant context, illustrating
interdependencies between financial data and
ESG information, as well as with the financial
reporting; and
•	 to systematically omit information that is not
material (and that would merely obscure key
messages and / or confuse investors
and analysts).
The Guide is designed to help issuers provide
investors and analysts with this information
efficiently and effectively and, by doing so, to
enable better-informed investment decisions.
BME
Spanish stock exchange’s
Voluntary Market Guidance for
Listed Companies for Corporate
Reporting on ESG Information
