PART 3

KING IV APPLICATION
AND DISCLOSURE


PRACTICES, PRINCIPLES AND GOVERNANCE
OUTCOMES

A major challenge in the implementation of codes of corporate governance is that recommended practices could
be mindlessly implemented as if they were rules, resulting in corporate governance becoming a mere compliance
burden. This inflexibility also leads to an inability to interpret and apply codes of corporate governance in a way
that is appropriate for the organisation and the sector in which it operates. Mindful application, on the other hand,
harnesses the benefits of corporate governance in the interests of the organisation and applying the governance
code comes to be seen as a process of adding rather than subtracting value.

si

on
om
m
er
ci
al
U
se

Understanding the relationship between governance outcomes, principles and practices as depicted below is key
to mindful application of the King IV Code. It also supports one of the objectives of King IV, namely to reinforce
corporate governance as a holistic and integrated set of arrangements.

Governance outcomes are the benefits that
organisations could realise if the underlying
principles - and therefore, ultimately, good
governance - are achieved.
These governance outcomes are:
• Effective control
• Ethical culture
• Legitimacy
• Good performance

N

ot

W

fo
rC

eb
si

te

Ve
r

Governance outcomes

Principles

Principles embody the aspirations of the
journey towards good corporate governance.
They guide on what organisations should strive
to achieve by the application of governance
practices. Principles build on and reinforce
one another; they are phrased so that they are
fundamental to good corporate governance
and hold true across all organisations.

Practices

Practices are recommended at the level of
leading practice. The practices associated with
a particular principle should be applied so that
they support and give effect to the aspiration
as expressed in that principle. Practices may
be scaled in accordance with proportionality
considerations.

36

© 2016 THE INSTITUTE OF DIRECTORS IN SOUTHERN AFRICA NPC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.

PROPORTIONALITY

Implementing King IV on a proportional basis means that the principles find application as they stand; they
embody the aspirations of, and are fundamental to the journey towards good governance. The practices as
recommended in the Code, however, are positioned at the level of leading practices, and may therefore not be
suitable and appropriate for all organisations. Mindless compliance and a quantitative approach is not the aim.
Instead, King IV strives to instil a qualitative approach in which recommended practices are implemented to
achieve the principles and realise the intended governance outcomes.

• Size of turnover and workforce.
• Resources.

on
om
m
er
ci
al
U
se

Even where not expressly stated in the Code, practices are meant to be scaled in accordance with the following
proportionality considerations particular to the organisation:

Ve
r

si

• Extent and complexity of activities, including impact on the triple context in which it operates.
Application of practices on a proportional basis is subject to legal provisions and giving effect to the principle that
the practices are associated with.

eb
si

te

DISCLOSURE ON APPLICATION OF KING IV
King IV application regime
Apply principles

fo
rC

W

The application regime for King IV is “apply and explain”:

N

ot

All principles are phrased as aspirations and ideals
that organisations should strive for in their journey
towards good governance and realising the governance
outcomes. The principles are basic and fundamental to
good governance, and application thereof is therefore
assumed.

Explain practices
Explanation should be provided in the form of a
narrative account, with reference to practices that
demonstrate application of the principle. The
explanation should address which recommended or
other practices have been implemented, and how
these achieve or give effect to the principle.

What should be disclosed on the application of King IV?

Specific disclosure recommendations are included under each principle of the King IV Code. These
recommendations are intended as guidance and a starting point for disclosure on the particular principle.
The detail of information to be provided in the narrative should be guided by materiality, and should enable
stakeholders to make an informed assessment of the quality of the organisation’s governance.
There is no need to disclose whether each practice has been implemented or not, as this is quantitative and does
not necessarily add to the quality of disclosure. There is also no need to disclose against the outcomes, as it can
be left to the user to draw inferences from the narrative provided.

™ 2016 THE INSTITUTE OF DIRECTORS IN SOUTHERN AFRICA NPC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.

37

KING IV APPLICATION AND DISCLOSURE
CONTINUED

Where should King IV disclosure be made?

The governing body has the discretion to determine where the King IV disclosures will be made; for example, in
the integrated report, sustainability report, social and ethics committee report, or other online or printed
information or reports.
The governing body may also choose to disclose its application of King IV in more than one of these reports.
Duplication of King IV disclosures should be avoided by making use of cross-referencing. Group companies
should also make use of cross-referencing to avoid duplicate disclosures.

on
om
m
er
ci
al
U
se

King IV disclosure should be updated at least annually, formally approved by the governing body and be publicly
accessible.

In respect of each principle, as
the point of departure, explain in
narrative form the matters that
the King IV Code recommends
for specific disclosure under
each principle.

te

Consider the recommended
practices associated with the
principle that are not already
included in the narrative. Expand
the explanation to these other
practices only if necessary to
further demonstrate how their
implementation supports the
achievement of the principle.

N

ot

W

fo
rC

eb
si

Start disclosure on King IV by
referencing all of the principles
in the Code.

Ve
r

si

Roadmap to disclosure on the application of King IV

Assess the completed
disclosure and make the
necessary enhancements to
ensure that it will enable the
users of the report to make
an informed assessment of
the quality of governance in
so far as the application of
the particular principle (and
ultimately all of the principles
in King IV) is concerned.

If applicable and necessary,
explain what alternative practices
(practices other that those the
King IV Code recommends
in respect of this principle)
have been implemented, and
how the implementation of
these practices supports the
achievement of the principle.

EFFECTIVE DATE
Disclosure on the application of King IV is effective in respect of financial years starting on or after 1 April 2017,
but immediate transition is encouraged. King IV replaces King III in its entirety.

38

© 2016 THE INSTITUTE OF DIRECTORS IN SOUTHERN AFRICA NPC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.

fo
rC

N

ot

W

eb
si

te

Ve
r

si

on
om
m
er
ci
al
U
se

PART 4

KING IV ON A PAGE

™ 2016 THE INSTITUTE OF DIRECTORS IN SOUTHERN AFRICA NPC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.

39

KING IV ON A PAGE
LEADERSHIP BY THE
GOVERNING BODY

PRINCIPLES

These are the governing body’s primary governance role
and responsibilities.

Principles embody the aspirations of the journey
towards good corporate governance.

Principle 1:	The governing body should lead
ethically and effectively.
Principle 2:	The governing body should govern the
ethics of the organisation in a way that
supports the establishment of an ethical
culture.

te

Ve
r

si

on
om
m
er
ci
al
U
se

Steers and sets
strategic direction

fo
rC

N

ot

W

eb
si

Approves policy
and planning

Oversees and
monitors

Ensures
accountability

Principle 3:	The governing body should ensure that
the organisation is and is seen to be a
responsible corporate citizen.
Principle 4:	The governing body should appreciate
that the organisation’s core purpose,
its risks and opportunities, strategy,
business model, performance and
sustainable development are all
inseparable elements of the value
creation process.
Principle 5:	The governing body should ensure
that reports issued by the organisation
enable stakeholders to make informed
assessments of the organisation’s
performance and its short, medium and
long-term prospects.
Principle 6:	The governing body should serve as the
focal point and custodian of corporate
governance in the organisation.
Principle 7:	The governing body should comprise
the appropriate balance of knowledge,
skills, experience, diversity and
independence for it to discharge its
governance role and responsibilities
objectively and effectively.
Principle 8:	The governing body should ensure that
its arrangements for delegation within
its own structures promote independent
judgement, and assist with balance of
power and the effective discharge of its
duties.
Principle 9:	The governing body should ensure that
the evaluation of its own performance
and that of its committees, its chair
and its individual members, support
continued improvement in its
performance and effectiveness.

40

© 2016 THE INSTITUTE OF DIRECTORS IN SOUTHERN AFRICA NPC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.

GOVERNANCE
OUTCOMES

PRINCIPLES
Practices support
and give effect to
the principles.

They guide on what organisations should strive to
achieve by the application of governance practices.

These are the benefits that
organisations could realise through
good governance.

Principle 10:	The governing body should ensure that
the appointment of, and delegation to,
management contribute to role clarity and
the effective exercise of authority and
responsibilities.

Principle 14:	The governing body should ensure that
the organisation remunerates fairly,
responsibly and transparently so as to
promote the achievement of strategic
objectives and positive outcomes in the
short, medium and long term.

N

ot

W

om
PRACTICES

fo
rC

eb
si

te

Principle 13:	The governing body should govern
compliance with applicable laws and
adopted, non-binding rules, codes and
standards in a way that supports the
organisation being ethical and a good
corporate citizen.

Principle 15:	The governing body should ensure that
assurance services and functions enable
an effective control environment, and that
these support the integrity of information
for internal decision-making and of the
organisation’s external reports.

se
al
U

m
er
ci

si

Ve
r

Principle 12:	The governing body should govern
technology and information in a way that
supports the organisation setting and
achieving its strategic objectives.

on

Principle 11:	The governing body should govern risk
in a way that supports the organisation
in setting and achieving its strategic
objectives.

Ethical
culture

Good
performance
Effective
control
Legitimacy

Principle 16:	In the execution of its governance role
and responsibilities, the governing body
should adopt a stakeholder-inclusive
approach that balances the needs,
interests and expectations of material
stakeholders in the best interests of the
organisation over time.
Principle 17:	The governing body of an institutional
investor organisation should ensure that
responsible investment is practiced by
the organisation to promote the good
governance and the creation of value by
the companies in which it invests.
™ 2016 THE INSTITUTE OF DIRECTORS IN SOUTHERN AFRICA NPC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.

41

fo
rC

N

ot

W

eb
si

te

Ve
r

si

on
om
m
er
ci
al
U
se

PART 5

KING IV CODE ON
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Part 5.1: Leadership, ethics and corporate citizenship
Part 5.2: Strategy, performance and reporting
Part 5.3: Governing structures and delegation
Part 5.4: Governance functional areas
Part 5.5: Stakeholder relationships

Effective
control

Good
performance

Ethical
culture

Legitimacy

KING IV CODE ON CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE
PART 5.1: LEADERSHIP, ETHICS AND
CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP
Leadership

Principle 1: The governing body should lead ethically and effectively.


Organisational ethics

3.	The arrangements by which the members of the governing body are being held to account for ethical and
effective leadership should be disclosed. These arrangements would include, but are not limited to, codes of
conduct and performance evaluations of the governing body and its members.

RECOMMENDED PRACTICES


Principle 2: The governing body should govern the ethics of the organisation in a
way that supports the establishment of an ethical culture.


10. The following should be disclosed in relation to organisational ethics:

a. An overview of the arrangements for governing and managing ethics.



b. Key areas of focus during the reporting period.

c. Measures taken to monitor organisational ethics and how the outcomes were addressed.
d. Planned areas of future focus.

Principle 3: The governing body should ensure that the organisation is and is seen
to be a responsible corporate citizen.

15. The following should be disclosed in relation to corporate citizenship:
a. An overview of the arrangements for governing and managing responsible corporate citizenship.
b. Key areas of focus during the reporting period.
c. Measures taken to monitor corporate citizenship and how the outcomes were addressed.


PART 5.2: STRATEGY, PERFORMANCE
AND REPORTING
Strategy and performance

Principle 4: The governing body should appreciate that the organisation’s
core purpose, its risks and opportunities, strategy, business model, performance
and sustainable development are all inseparable elements of the value
creation process.

In respect of disclosure on strategy and performance, refer to Reporting below.

Reporting
Principle 5: The governing body should ensure that reports issued by the
organisation enable stakeholders to make informed assessments of the
organisation’s performance, and its short, medium and long-term prospects.
RECOMMENDED PRACTICES

9.	The governing body should assume responsibility for the organisation’s reporting by setting the direction for
how it should be approached and conducted.

10.	The governing body should approve management’s determination of the reporting frameworks (including
reporting standards) to be used, taking into account legal requirements and the intended audience and
purpose of each report.

11.	The governing body should oversee that reports such as the annual financial statements, sustainability
reports, social and ethics committee reports, or other online or printed information or reports are issued, as is
necessary, to comply with legal requirements, and/or to meet the legitimate and reasonable information needs
of material stakeholders.

12.	The governing body should oversee that the organisation issues an integrated report at least annually, which
is either:

a.	a standalone report which connects the more detailed information in other reports and addresses, at a high
level and in a complete, concise way, the matters that could significantly affect the organisation’s ability to
create value; or

b.	a distinguishable, prominent and accessible part of another report which also includes the annual financial
statements and other reports that must be issued in compliance with legal provisions.
13.	The governing body should approve management’s bases for determining materiality for the purpose of
deciding which information should be included in external reports.
14.	The governing body should ensure the integrity of external reports as provided for in Part 5.4, Assurance of
External Reports.
15.	The governing body should oversee that the following information is published on the organisation’s website,
or on other platforms or through other media as is appropriate for access by stakeholders:
a.	Corporate governance disclosures required in terms of this Code (refer to Part 3: King IV Application and
Disclosure for more detail).
b. Integrated reports.
c. Annual financial statements and other external reports.

PART 5.3: GOVERNING STRUCTURES AND
DELEGATION
Primary role and responsibilities of the governing body

Principle 6: The governing body should serve as the focal point and custodian of
corporate governance in the organisation.

5. The following should be disclosed in relation to the primary role and responsibilities of the governing body:
a.	The number of meetings held during the reporting period, and attendance at those meetings.
b.	Whether the governing body is satisfied that it has fulfilled its responsibilities in accordance with its charter
for the reporting period.

Composition of the governing body
Principle 7: The governing body should comprise the appropriate balance of
knowledge, skills, experience, diversity and independence for it to discharge its
governance role and responsibilities objectively and effectively.

30.	The following should be disclosed with regards to the composition of the governing body:
a.	Whether the governing body is satisfied that its composition reflects the appropriate mix of knowledge,
skills, experience, diversity and independence.
b.	The targets set for gender and race representation in the membership of the governing body, and progress
made against these targets.
c.	The categorisation of each member as executive or non-executive.
d.	The categorisation of each non-executive member as independent or not and, when a non-executive
member of the governing body has been serving for longer than nine years, a summary of the views of the
governing body on the independence of the member.
e.	The qualifications and experience of members.
f.	Each member’s period of service on the governing body.
g.	The age of each member.
h.	Other governing body and professional positions held by each member.
i.	The reasons why any members of the governing body have been removed, resigned or retired.

Committees of the governing body
Principle 8: The governing body should ensure that its arrangements for
delegation within its own structures promote independent judgement, and assist
with balance of power and the effective discharge of its duties.

50.	The following should be disclosed in relation to each committee of the governing body:

a.	Its overall role and associated responsibilities and functions.

b.	Its composition, including each member’s qualifications and experience.

c.	Any external advisers or invitees who regularly attend committee meetings.

d.	Key areas of focus during the reporting period.

e.	The number of meetings held during the reporting period and attendance at those meetings.

Audit committee

f.	Whether the committee is satisfied that it has fulfilled its responsibilities in accordance with its terms of
reference for the reporting period.

59.	In addition to required statutory disclosure and the disclosures recommended in paragraph 50, the following
should also be disclosed in relation to the audit committee:

a.	A statement as to whether the audit committee is satisfied that the external auditor is independent of the
organisation. The statement should specifically address:
i.	the policy and controls that address the provision of non-audit services by the external auditor, and the
nature and extent of such services rendered during the financial year;
		
ii.	the tenure of the external audit firm and, in the event of the firm having been involved in a merger or
acquisition, including the tenure of the predecessor firm;

iii.	the rotation of the designated external audit partner; and

iv.	significant changes in the management of the organisation during the external audit firm’s tenure which
may mitigate the attendant risk of familiarity between the external auditor and management.

b.	Significant matters that the audit committee has considered in relation to the annual financial statements,
and how these were addressed by the committee.

c.	The audit committee’s views on the quality of the external audit, with reference to audit quality indicators
such as those that may be included in inspection reports issued by external audit regulators.
d.	The audit committee’s views on the effectiveness of the chief audit executive and the arrangements for
internal audit.
e.	The audit committee’s views on the effectiveness of the design and implementation of internal financial
controls, and on the nature and extent of any significant weaknesses in the design, implementation or
execution of internal financial controls that resulted in material financial loss, fraud, corruption or error.
f.	The audit committee’s views on the effectiveness of the CFO and the finance function.
g.	The arrangements in place for combined assurance and the committee’s views on its effectiveness.

Committee responsible for nominations of members of the governing body


Refer to paragraph 50 for the recommended disclosures in relation to the committee responsible for nominations.

Committee responsible for risk governance

Committee responsible for remuneration
Refer to paragraph 50 for the recommended disclosures in relation to the committee responsible for risk.

Refer to paragraph 50 for the recommended disclosures in relation to the committee responsible for remuneration.

Evaluations of the performance of the governing body
Principle 9: The governing body should ensure that the evaluation of its own
performance and that of its committees, its chair and its individual members,
support continued improvement in its performance and effectiveness.

75.	The following should be disclosed in relation to the evaluation of the performance of the governing body:

a.	A description of the performance evaluations undertaken during the reporting period, including their scope,
whether they were formal or informal, and whether they were externally facilitated or not.

b.	An overview of the evaluation results and remedial actions taken.

c.	Whether the governing body is satisfied that the evaluation process is improving its performance and
effectiveness.

Appointment and delegation to management

Principle 10: The governing body should ensure that the appointment of, and
delegation to, management contribute to role clarity and the effective exercise of
authority and responsibilities.

83.	The following should be disclosed in relation to the CEO:

a.	The notice period stipulated in the CEO’s employment contract and the contractual conditions related to
termination.

b.	Other professional commitments of the CEO, including membership of governing bodies outside the
organisation.

c.	Whether succession planning is in place for the CEO position.

89.	A statement by the governing body on whether it is satisfied that the delegation of authority framework
contributes to role clarity and the effective exercise of authority and responsibilities should be disclosed.

PART 5.4: GOVERNANCE FUNCTIONAL AREAS
Risk governance

Principle 11: The governing body should govern risk in a way that supports the
organisation in setting and achieving its strategic objectives.

6.	The governing body should exercise ongoing oversight of risk management and, in particular, oversee that it
results in the following:
a.	An assessment of risks and opportunities emanating from the triple context in which the organisation
operates and the capitals that the organisation uses and affects.
b.	An assessment of the potential upside, or opportunity, presented by risks with potentially negative effects
on achieving organisational objectives.
c.	An assessment of the organisation’s dependence on resources and relationships as represented by the
various forms of capital.
d.	The design and implementation of appropriate risk responses.
e.	The establishment and implementation of business continuity arrangements that allow the organisation to
operate under conditions of volatility, and to withstand and recover from acute shocks.
f.	The integration and embedding of risk management in the business activities and culture of the
organisation.
7.	The governing body should consider the need to receive periodic independent assurance on the effectiveness
of risk management.
8.	The nature and extent of the risks and opportunities the organisation is willing to take should be disclosed
without compromising sensitive information.

9.	In addition, the following should be disclosed in relation to risk:
a.	An overview of the arrangements for governing and managing risk.
b.	Key areas of focus during the reporting period, including objectives, the key risks that the organisation
faces, as well as undue, unexpected or unusual risks and risks taken outside of risk tolerance levels.
c.	Actions taken to monitor the effectiveness of risk management and how the outcomes were addressed.
d.	Planned areas of future focus.

Principle 12: The governing body should govern technology and information in a
way that supports the organisation setting and achieving its strategic objectives.

17.	The following should be disclosed in relation to technology and information:
a.	An overview of the arrangements for governing and managing technology and information.

b.	Key areas of focus during the reporting period, including objectives, significant changes in policy,
significant acquisitions and remedial actions taken as a result of major incidents.

c.	Actions taken to monitor the effectiveness of technology and information management and how the
outcomes were addressed.

d.	Planned areas of future focus.

Compliance governance
Principle 13: The governing body should govern compliance with applicable laws
and adopted, non-binding rules, codes and standards in a way that supports the
organisation being ethical and a good corporate citizen.

23.	The following should be disclosed in relation to compliance:

a.	An overview of the arrangements for governing and managing compliance.
b.	Key areas of focus during the reporting period.
d.	Planned areas of future focus.
c.	Actions taken to monitor the effectiveness of compliance management and how the outcomes were
addressed.

24.	Material or repeated regulatory penalties, sanctions or fines for contraventions of, or non-compliance with,
statutory obligations, whether imposed on the organisation or on members of the governing body or officers
should be disclosed.
25.	Details of monitoring and compliance inspections by environmental regulators, findings of non-compliance with
environmental laws, or criminal sanctions and prosecutions for such non-compliance should be disclosed.

Remuneration governance
Principle 14: The governing body should ensure that the organisation remunerates
fairly, responsibly and transparently so as to promote the achievement of strategic
objectives and positive outcomes in the short, medium and long term.

Remuneration report

32.	The governing body should ensure that remuneration is disclosed by means of a remuneration report in
three parts:
a.	A background statement.
b.	An overview of the main provisions of the remuneration policy.
c.	An implementation report which contains details of all remuneration awarded to individual members of the
governing body and executive management during the reporting period.

Background statement
33.	The background statement should briefly provide context for remuneration considerations and decisions, with
reference to:
a.	internal and external factors that influenced remuneration;
b.	the most recent results of voting on the remuneration policy and the implementation report and the
measures taken in response thereto;

c.	key areas of focus and key decisions taken by the remuneration committee during the reporting period,
including any substantial changes to the remuneration policy;
d.	whether remuneration consultants have been used, and whether the remuneration committee is satisfied
that they were independent and objective;

f.	future areas of focus.

Overview of remuneration policy

e.	the views of the remuneration committee on whether the remuneration policy achieved its stated objectives;
and

34.	The overview of the main provisions of the remuneration policy should address the objectives of the policy and
the manner in which the policy seeks to accomplish these. The overview should include the following:


a.	The remuneration elements and design principles informing the remuneration arrangements for executive
management and, at a high level, for other employees.


b.	Details of any obligations in executive employment contracts which could give rise to payments on
termination of employment or office.
c.	A description of the framework and performance measures used to assess the achievement of strategic
objectives and positive outcomes, including the relative weighting of each performance measure and the
period of time over which it is measured.
d.	An illustration of the potential consequences on the total remuneration for executive management, on a
single, total figure basis, of applying the remuneration policy under minimum, on-target and maximum
performance outcomes.
e.	An explanation of how the policy addresses fair and responsible remuneration for executive management
in the context of overall employee remuneration.
f.	The use and justification of remuneration benchmarks.
g.	The basis for the setting of fees for non-executive directors.
h.	A reference to an electronic link to the full remuneration policy for public access.


Implementation report
35.	The implementation report, which includes the remuneration disclosure in terms of the Companies Act, should
reflect the following:
a.	The remuneration of each member of executive management, which should include in separate tables:
i.	a single, total figure of remuneration, received and receivable for the reporting period, and all the
remuneration elements that it comprises, each disclosed at fair value; 		

ii.	the details of all awards made under variable remuneration incentive schemes in the current and prior
years that have not yet vested, including the number of awards; the values at date of grant; their award,
vesting and expiry dates (where applicable); and the fair value at the end of the reporting period; and

iii.	the cash value of all awards made under variable remuneration incentive schemes that were settled
during the reporting period.


b.	An account of the performance measures used and the relative weighting of each, as a result of which
awards under variable remuneration incentive schemes have been made, including: the targets set for the
performance measures and the corresponding value of the award opportunity; and for each performance
measure, how the organisation and executive managers, individually, performed against the set targets.

c.	Separate disclosure of, and reasons for, any payments made on termination of employment or office.
d.	A statement regarding compliance with, and any deviations from, the remuneration policy.

37.	The remuneration policy and the implementation report should be tabled every year for separate non-binding
advisory votes by shareholders at the AGM.
38.	The remuneration policy should record the measures that the board commits to take in the event that either
the remuneration policy or the implementation report, or both have been voted against by 25% or more of the
voting rights exercised. Such measures should provide for taking steps in good faith and with best reasonable
effort towards the following at a minimum:
a.	An engagement process to ascertain the reasons for the dissenting votes.
b.	Appropriately addressing legitimate and reasonable objections and concerns raised, which may include
amending the remuneration policy, or clarifying or adjusting remuneration governance and/or processes.
39.	In the event that either the remuneration policy or the implementation report, or both were voted against by
25% or more of the voting rights exercised, the following should be disclosed in the background statement of
the remuneration report succeeding the voting:
a.	with whom the company engaged, and the manner and form of engagement to ascertain the reasons for
dissenting votes; and
b.	the nature of steps taken to address legitimate and reasonable objections and concerns.

Assurance
Principle 15: The governing body should ensure that assurance services and
functions enable an effective control environment, and that these support the
integrity of information for internal decision-making and of the organisation’s
external reports.

47.	External reports should disclose information about the type of assurance process applied to each report, in
addition to the independent, external audit opinions provided in terms of legal requirements. This information
should include:
a.	a brief description of the nature, scope and extent of the assurance functions, services and processes
underlying the preparation and presentation of the report; and
b.	a statement by the governing body on the integrity of the report and the basis for this statement, with
reference to the assurance applied.

Internal audit

Refer to Part 5.3: Audit committee for recommended disclosures by the audit committee concerning the
organisation’s application of combined assurance.

56.	The CAE should report to the chair of the audit committee on the performance of duties and functions that
relate to internal audit. On other duties and administrative matters, the CAE should report to the member of
executive management designated for this purpose as appropriate for the organisation.

PART 5.5: STAKEHOLDER RELATIONSHIPS
Stakeholders

5.	The following should be disclosed in relation to stakeholder relationships:
a.	An overview of the arrangements for governing and managing stakeholder relationships.
b.	Key areas of focus during the reporting period.
c.	Actions taken to monitor the effectiveness of stakeholder management and how the outcomes were
addressed.
d.	Future areas of focus.

Shareholder relationships (Applicable to companies only)

18.	The holding company should disclose an overview of the group governance framework that is implemented
across the group.
19.	The subsidiary company should disclose what responsibilities it has delegated to board committees of the
holding company and the extent to which it has adopted the policies and procedures of the holding company.

Responsibilities of institutional investors

Principle 17: The governing body of an institutional investor organisation should
ensure that responsible investment is practiced by the organisation to promote the
good governance and the creation of value by the companies in which it invests.



