In support of Supported by
Leading the way for
a better tomorrow
JSE Sustainability
Disclosure Guidance
Draft open for public comment from
9 December 2021 - 28 February 2022

Contents
A message from the JSE Group CEO 2
Introduction 4
Chapter 1: What is sustainability, and why report on it? 8
1.1 What is Sustainability and ESG? 10
1.2 Why report on sustainability? The business case for good disclosure 13
Chapter 2: How might an organisation approach sustainability disclosure? 16
2.1 Understanding materiality 18
2.2 Different reporting formats 20
2.3 Principles for useful sustainability data and an effective sustainability disclosure 23
Chapter 3: What sustainability information should a company disclose? 24
3.1 Sustainability Narrative Disclosures 27
3.2 Core and Leadership Sustainability Metrics 30
Annexes 38
Annex 1: Global and regional standards and frameworks relating to sustainability disclosure 39
Annex 2: The JSE Disclosure Guidance, the ISSB Protocols and the EU CSRD – A brief comparison 42
Annex 3: Abbreviations and acronyms 46
Annex 4: Acknowledgements 47
JSE Limited Sustainability Disclosure Guidance 2021 1

Introduction
Globally and locally, companies are feeling increased
pressure to improve their performance and disclosure
on environmental, social and governance (ESG) and
climate-related issues, and to demonstrate leadership in
addressing social and environmental challenges.
Increasing investor interest in ESG disclosure, coupled
with the recent growth in sustainable finance instruments
and the varying methodologies and indicators of ESG
rating agencies and global reporting standards, has
prompted calls for more consistent, comparable, and
verifiable sustainability metrics and narrative disclosure.
In this context, the JSE welcomes the recent global
initiatives aimed at ensuring greater convergence and
harmonisation of sustainability reporting standards.
The JSE believes that meaningful sustainability disclosure
plays an important role in building resilient markets,
helping to attract financial capital, and fostering greater
accountability and improved business performance.
We believe that locally listed companies and investors
will benefit from the global activities – by the G20, G7,
the European Commission, the Financial Stability Board,
the IFRS Foundation, the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI),
and others – towards developing a common baseline of
international sustainability reporting standards. We are
committed to ensuring that the disclosure practices
of South African companies are aligned with these
initiatives, and that the country continues to play an
influential role in contributing to these developments.
To help local companies navigate the recent changes
 in the global reporting landscape, and to stimulate
improved sustainability disclosure and performance,
the JSE has developed this Sustainability Disclosure
Guidance that is aligned with global expectations and
best practice, and specifically tailored to the South
African business context. It is intended that this
Disclosure Guidance will serve as an umbrella for
topic-related guidance as needed, with the first such
guidance – on Climate Disclosure – to be released at
the same time.
Securities exchanges are uniquely placed to facilitate more efficient capital
markets by properly pricing social and environmental risks through
effective, consistent, and comparable sustainability and climate-related
disclosure.
Ensuring coherence: The link
between the JSE Disclosure
Guidance and key global
initiatives
The Sustainability Metrics and Narrative Disclosures
provided in the JSE Sustainability Disclosure Guidance
are fully aligned with, and draw from, the following
international initiatives on sustainability and climate
change disclosure:
y The initial work of the recently established
International Sustainability Standards Board (ISSB),
including the two recently published prototypes
developed by the IFRS Foundation Technical
Readiness Working Group (TRWG)2
y The standards and guidance in the Value Reporting
Foundation’s Integrated Thinking Principles,
Integrated Reporting Framework, and SASB
Standards
y The Climate Disclosure Standards Board (CDSB)
Framework (soon to be consolidated – together with
the Value Reporting Foundation – within the IFRS
Foundation)
y The recommendations of the Task Force on Climaterelated Financial Disclosure (TCFD)
y The WEF’s Measuring Stakeholder Capitalism metrics
y The SDG Disclosure Recommendations
y The GRI’s Sustainability Reporting Standards,
developed by the Global Sustainability Standards
Board (GSSB)
y The work of the European Commission and European
Financial Reporting Advisory Group (EFRAG)
regarding the development of EU sustainability
reporting standards as part of the proposed
Corporate Sustainability Reporting Directive (CSRD)
As outlined in Figure 1, these various global initiatives
that inform the JSE Disclosure Guidance relate to one
of three broad arenas for corporate disclosure on
sustainability issues: sustainability reporting, integrated
4 JSE Limited Sustainability Disclosure Guidance 2021
reporting, and financial reporting. The ISSB and TCFD,
for example, focus explicitly on disclosure to inform an
assessment of enterprise value (and are thus
traditionally addressed in integrated reports and
financial statements), while the GRI’s Sustainability
Reporting Standards and the EU proposal for a
Corporate Sustainability Reporting Directive both look at
disclosure through the broader lens of the
organisation’s impacts on the economy, society, and
the environment.
In line with the King IV Code, the JSE’s Sustainability
Disclosure Guidance aims to improve the quality and
availability of information both for investors – focusing
on the sustainability-related risks and opportunities that
affect the entity’s financial performance (the ‘outside-in’
perspective) – as well as for stakeholders more broadly,
covering disclosure on the reporting entity’s significant
impacts on the economy, society, and the environment
(‘inside-out’) .
The JSE Sustainability Disclosure Guidance is not
intended to replace any of these global initiatives, but
instead seeks to help companies navigate this very
dynamic landscape of reporting standards, while also
providing for the South African business context,
legislative requirements, and specific socio-economic
and environmental challenges. An important aim of this
Guidance is to reduce complexity and the potential for
duplicative reporting requirements, assisting reporting
entities, investors, and other stakeholders through the
provision of decision-useful metrics that are both
globally aligned – facilitating access to global markets
– yet also locally relevant.
Figure 1 – Global standards and different lenses for corporate sustainability disclosure4
Dynamic materiality:
Sustainability-related
issues can move
(gradually or very
quickly) between
these areas
All sustainability matters affected by or that affect the organisation
Disclosure includes those sustainability topics that
reflect the organisation’s most significant impacts
(positive or negative) on society, the environment,
and the economy (”people, planet and prosperity”).
Disclosure includes a sub-set of sustainability
issues that enable report users to understand the
financial implications of sustainability-related
risks and opportunities on enterprise value
over time.
Disclosure includes monetary amounts in the financial
statements reflecting the effects on enterprise value that
have already taken place at the reporting date, or are
included in future cash flow projections.
Materiality should be informed by science-based
environmental thresholds and agreed social priorities as
articulated in authoritative international instruments,
global and national development objectives, and local
legislative requirements.
Materiality should be informed by the extent to which the
sustainability-related information influences a users’
assessments of the value, timing and certainty of the
reporting entity’s future cash flows, over the short,
medium and long term.
Sustainability reporting targets all stakeholders seeking to
understand the entity’s significant sustainability impacts
Integrated reporting targets stakeholders seeking to assess
enterprise value (eg: investors, lenders and creditors)
Financial reporting targets primarily investors
and capital markets
Impact
Materiality
Financial
Materiality
2 General Requirements for Disclosure of Sustainability-related Financial Information Prototype and Climate-related Disclosures Prototype (both
published on 3 November 2021)
3 This dual approach is sometimes referred to as ‘double materiality’. See eg Section 3.1 and the EU Non-Financial Reporting Directive (Directive
2014/95/EU)
4 This diagram draws on various material developed by EFRAG, GRI, CDP, CDSB, Value Reporting Foundation and IFRS
JSE Limited Sustainability Disclosure Guidance 2021 5
The JSE Sustainability
Disclosure Guidance: Purpose
and intended audience
This Disclosure Guidance does not constitute a new
listing requirement and is not intended as a new reporting
standard or to replace legal obligations. The Guidance
highlights emerging best practice for disclosure in line
with international developments. It is intended to inform a
reporting organisation’s sustainability materiality process
with a view to enhancing business practice.
At the heart of this Disclosure Guidance is the belief,
firstly, that sustainability issues are material to enterprise
value creation and increasingly provide valuable
opportunities for commercial innovation, and secondly,
that if we are to transition to a more sustainable economy
– as outlined for example in the UN SDGs and the
Glasgow Climate Pact – then organisations need to
deepen their understanding and disclosure of their most
significant social and environmental impacts.
As a conduit between issuers and investors, securities
exchanges are uniquely placed to encourage and facilitate
more transparent and efficient capital markets that generate
long-term value. Transparency builds trust, which is critical
to well-functioning markets. Effective corporate disclosure
enhances internal management practice and enables
meaningful accountability, both of which are critical
drivers for improved sustainability performance.
This Disclosure Guidance aims to enable more useful,
consistent, and comparable sustainability disclosure to
inform better decision-making and action. To achieve this,
the Guidance seeks to:
Help issuers navigate the rapidly evolving landscape
of sustainability disclosure
Support the convergence of global reporting standards
Outline the business case for disclosing the organisation’
sustainability governance and management practices and
their performance on relevant ESG metrics
Stimulate interest in the innovation opportunities
in sustainability challenges
Assist in contributing to the achievement of
national and international sustainable
development commitments and priorities, such
as the National Development Plan and UN SDGs
This Guidance avoids being prescriptive, and
leaves responsibility for decision-making with the
reporting organisation, particularly as regards the
identification of material sustainability issues.
The Sustainability Narrative Disclosures and the
Core and Leadership Metrics in Chapter 3 of this
Disclosure Guidance are intended to inform any
materiality processes that organisation’s use to
inform the content of their various annual
reports. The Guidance is designed to be helpful
for those companies with little or no experience in
sustainability and ESG disclosure, as well as
helping more experienced reporting companies to
align with recent changes in global standards and
international best practice.
While intended primarily to assist JSE-listed
companies, this guidance will also be of value to
institutional investors and the different entities
that they invest in (including non-listed
companies and debt issuers), as well as a range
of stakeholder groups interested in sustainability
disclosure and performance.
Investors are increasingly interested in
sustainability issues as this pertains to all their
investments, irrespective of whether they are
large or small, equities or bonds, listed or unlisted,
across all sectors. The JSE believes that the
characteristics of high-quality disclosure and
effective engagement with investors is broadly
the same for all entities, whether it is a large
publicly listed issuer with a long track record of
reporting, a smaller company, a privately held
business, or a debt issuer. All these different
entities are encouraged to use these guidelines.
6 JSE Limited Sustainability Disclosure Guidance 2021
JSE Limited Sustainability Disclosure Guidance 2021 7
What is sustainability
and why report on it?
01
8 JSE Limited Sustainability Disclosure Guidance 2021
JSE Limited Sustainability Disclosure Guidance 2021 9
1.1 What is sustainability
and ESG?
The concepts of ‘sustainability’ and ESG
(environmental, social and governance issues) often
mean different things to different people. Despite the
terms increasingly being used by investors,
companies, standards setting bodies, and
academics, there is no clear agreement on the exact
scope of each of these terms.
For many companies, practitioners and standards
setting bodies, ESG and sustainability are seen as
interchangeable concepts. In the London Stock
Exchange’s Guide to ESG Reporting , for example,
the stock exchange recognises that “many
companies use ‘sustainability’, ‘corporate
responsibility’ or ‘corporate social responsibility’ to
refer to strategies or programmes related to
environmental, social or governance (ESG) activities”.
While the LSE states that they “make no particular
recommendation concerning which term to use”, for
the purpose of their guidance, the LSE chooses to
use ESG “as it has become a commonly-used
investment term.” Significantly, the LSE’s guidance
has a strong investor focus, identifying material ESG
issues as those that influence the economic
decisions of shareholders.
The view of ‘ESG’ as being primarily about ‘enterprise
value’ is widespread in the investment community.
As the International Organization of Securities
Commissions (IOSCO) puts it: “ESG ratings, rankings
and scorings serve the same objective, namely the
assessment of an entity, an instrument, or an
issuer’s exposure to ESG risks and/or opportunities.”
This focus on enterprise value is at the heart of the
Value Reporting Foundation (and before that, of
SASB and the IIRC) and is informing the standards
being developed by the International Sustainability
Standards Board (ISSB). Whether the term ‘ESG’ is
necessarily limited to a focus on enterprise value
might be up for debate, but there is a strong case to
be made that this is how it is predominantly applied,
certainly in the investment sector.
‘Sustainability’ takes a much broader focus and
recognises the need to drive systemic change in
achieving a more equitable society and economy
that operates within ecological boundaries. This
understanding of sustainability focuses on an
organisation’s impacts on society, the environment,
and the economy (on ‘people, planet and prosperity’)
enabling an assessment of the organisation’s
contribution toward global commitments such as the
UN SDGs. This approach informs the work of the GRI’s
Sustainability Reporting Standards developed by the
Global Sustainability Standards Board and is also
evidenced in the EU’s sustainable finance regulation,
which defines ‘sustainable investment’ as
 “an investment in an economic activity that contributes
to an environmental objective …. or a social objective …
(such as) tackling inequality or that fosters social
cohesion, social integration, and labour relations …
King IV similarly makes it clear that “sustainable
development is not confined to individual matters,
such as the economic viability of the organisation …”
In line with approach adopted by the King IV Code, the
JSE’s Sustainability Disclosure Guidance aims to
improve the quality and availability of information both
about the sustainability-related risks and opportunities
that affect the organisation’s financial performance
(sometimes referred to as ESG), as well as information
about the organisation’s impacts on people, the
environment, and economy. As outlined in Figure 1
(page 5), the Guidance is thus intended to inform
disclosure for the purposes of annual integrated reports,
sustainability reports, and annual financial statements.
Growing stakeholder and investor
interest in sustainability performance
and disclosure
Although sustainability and ESG issues are sometimes
referred to as ‘non-financial’, these issues clearly
contribute to financial value in various ways. Effective
sustainability responses can:
Protect value – through initiatives taken in response to
material social, environmental and governance risks
Create value – by stimulating innovation in response to
sustainability challenges, delivering profit-led
environmental or social benefits, at scale
Enable value creation – for example by encouraging
collaboration with peers (including competitors) to
address systemic sustainability risks to the broader
market ecosystem
As sustainability pressures continue their anticipated
upward trend, an organisation’s sustainability policies,
practices and performance will increasingly impact on
the organisation’s value. Its ability to communicate its
sustainability performance more effectively – and
investors’ ability to track this better – is increasingly
impacting access to capital.
10 JSE Limited Sustainability Disclosure Guidance 2021
A new kind of financial instrument – sustainabilitylinked finance– is gaining traction, including as part of
the efforts to achieve national commitments under the
Paris Agreement. Both corporate issuers and investors
are moving beyond green bonds and loans, broadening
the scope of sustainable finance to align with the need
to integrate sustainability in the core management and
governance of companies. This follows closely on the
heels of national and regional initiatives to develop
taxonomies for green finance, such as the EU
Sustainable Finance Taxonomy9 and the South Africa
Green Finance Taxonomy currently out for public
comment.10 Indications from the EU, G7 and G20 are
that financial institutions will be increasingly
encouraged to invest in the “transition” space, but to do
so in a rigorous manner requiring evidence of robust
sustainability risk management practices. Given this
context, there is seen to be valuable potential for JSE
listed companies to use this Disclosure Guidance to
leverage this opportunity.
THE UNITED NATIONS SUSTAINABLE
DEVELOPMENT GOALS (SDGS)
There is increasing appreciation in both the business and investment communities about the commercial
significance of sustainable development and the 17 SDGs. Adopted by all United Nations Member States in
2015, the 17 UN SDGs provide the blueprint for a more sustainable future by tackling some of the biggest
and most urgent global challenges, such as poverty, inequality, climate change and environmental
degradation; the private sector is recognised as having a significant responsibility to use their global reach
and innovative potential to make a meaningful contribution to achieving the SDGs. Companies can measure
and report their impacts in relation to the SDGs and implement new ideas that improve the business,
reducing their footprint and minimizing overall negative impacts. Companies can also use the SDGs as
inspiration and design criteria for new product development and business process innovation, developing
profitable products and services that contribute to solving global social and environmental challenges.
SDG 12 encompasses target 12.6, which “encourage(s) companies, especially large and
transnational companies, to adopt sustainable practices and to integrate sustainability
information into their reporting cycle.” Governments are required to report the numbers of
sustainability reports submitted on an annual basis, as required in SDG indicator 12.6.1. The
need for accountability of companies’ direct contribution to sustainable development is consistent with a
rising interest among investors to understand sustainability performance in the context of broader social
and environmental outcomes.
9 EU Taxonomy for Sustainable Activities
10 https://sustainablefinanceinitiative.org.za/taxonomy
JSE Limited Sustainability Disclosure Guidance 2021 11
12 JSE Limited Sustainability Disclosure Guidance 2021
1.2 Why report on
sustainability: The business
case for good disclosure
Done properly, sustainability disclosure can result in
valuable benefits for the reporting organisation. The
extent to which these benefits are realised depends
significantly on the effectiveness of the organisation’s
reporting process, and on the quality of the disclosure in
the report (see section 3.2 on a set of disclosure principles
aimed at strengthening the quality of the disclosure).
The Sustainable Stock Exchanges Initiative has identified
the following suggested benefits of effective sustainability
disclosure:11
Enhancing access to capital
y Demonstrating effective management of material
sustainability risks and opportunities can enhance the
ability to attract capital and secure more favourable
financing conditions.
Driving profitability and growth
y Generating increased financial value for the company
by identifying opportunities for cost savings, revenue
generation and risk mitigation.
y Prompting innovation and enhancing market
differentiation and competitiveness, by creating a
deeper understanding of stakeholder needs.
y Enabling strengthened management and board
scrutiny of sustainability opportunities and risks and
promoting greater company-wide alignment on goals.
Improving compliance and
risk management
y Addressing mandatory reporting requirements on
financially material factors and mitigating compliance
risks related to financial disclosure obligations.
y Helping the company stay ahead of emerging
sustainability disclosure regulations, as well as
enhancing its ability to comply with sustainability
performance requirements more broadly.
y Protecting the company’s license to operate by
demonstrating corporate transparency and
responsiveness to stakeholder needs.
Enhancing corporate reputation
and stakeholder relationship
y Demonstrating corporate commitments to
responsible management of environmental, social,
and economic impacts.
y Exhibiting corporate adherence to industry ethical
standards and national and international frameworks
on corporate sustainability and sustainable
development.
y Enhancing corporate reputation by improving
stakeholders’ perception of a company through
reporting-related stakeholder engagement.
y Improving employee perception of the company,
helping to attract, retain, motivate, and align new and
existing employees.
y Ensuring that key stakeholders have
the relevant information that is needed to make
informed decisions about the company’s ability to
create value in the short, medium, and longer term.
y Enhancing the flow of relevant information between
the board and management.
Figure 2 – Value drivers for enhanced sustainability performance and disclosure12 RETURN ON EQUITY OR CAPITAL
RISK MANAGEMENT
– Operational and regulatory risk
– Reputational risk
– Supply chain risk
– Leadership and adaptability
Measurable reduction in exposure to
sustainability-related risks to revenue
and reputation
PRODUCTIVITY
– Operational efficiency
– Human capital management
– Reputation pricing power
Total cost saving + avoidance from
sustainability-related initiatives
GROWTH
– New markets and Geographies
– New customers and market share
– Product and service innovation
– Long-term strategy
Revenue growth from sustainabilityenhanced or advanced products
and services
11 Sustainable Stock Exchanges Initiative (2015) Model Guidance on Reporting ESG Information to Investors (Annex C)
12 Derived from the UN Global Compact value driver model (https://www.unglobalcompact.org/library/811), as presented in GPW (2021) ESG Reporting
Guidelines
JSE Limited Sustainability Disclosure Guidance 2021 13
Figure 3: Emergence and convergence of global sustainability and climate-related disclosure standards13
13 Diagram based on various similar source documents, developed internally for JSE – Draft to be updated
Growing convergence in the
sustainability disclosure landscape
The following text will be revised and updated as needed
– keeping this all succinct in giving a very high-level
overview and linking it with the above diagram. Provision
will also be made for the most current developments in
terms of the IFRS, ISSB and VRF, and developments
with GRI and EFRAG; some of these developments are
very current and may change before final publication.
y In Sept 2020, the five leading voluntary frameworkand standard-setters on sustainability and climaterelated disclosure – CDP, the Climate Disclosure
Standards Board (CDSB), GRI, the International Integrated
Reporting Council (IIRC), and the Sustainability
Accounting Standards Board (SASB) – for the first
time committed to work towards a joint vision.
y In 2020 The International Federation of Accountants
(IFAC) called for the creation of an International
Sustainability Standards Board (ISSB) to sit alongside
the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB)
under the auspices of the IFRS Foundation.
y In early 2021 the IIRC and SASB combined to establish
the Value Reporting Foundation (VRF), and in
November 2021, the VRF and the CDSB announced
their intention to consolidate with the IFRS Foundation,
jointly positioning their resources to serve as a
framework to connect the work of IASB and the ISSB
y The European Commission is revising its NonFinancial Reporting Directive (NFRD), adopting a
proposal for a Corporate Sustainability Reporting
Directive (CSRD) that would inter alia extend the
scope of the NFRD to all large companies and all
companies listed on regulated markets (except
micro-enterprises), as well as introducing more
detailed reporting requirements, aligned with the GRI
Sustainability Reporting Standards
y The International Organisation of Securities
Commissions (IOSCO) has set out its intention to
accelerate the harmonization of sustainability
standards and is supportive of the approach of the
ISSB
y The Taskforce on Nature-related Financial Disclosures
(TNFD) was launched in June 2021 to develop and
deliver a risk management and disclosure framework
for organisations to report and act on evolving
nature-related risks, which aims to support a shift in
global financial flows away from nature-negative
outcomes and toward nature-positive outcomes.
14 JSE Limited Sustainability Disclosure Guidance 2021
JSE Limited Sustainability Disclosure Guidance 2021 15
How might an
organisation approach
sustainability
disclosure?
02
16 JSE Limited Sustainability Disclosure Guidance 2021
JSE Limited Sustainability Disclosure Guidance 2021 17
2.1 Understanding materiality
Material information is any information that is reasonably
capable of making a difference to the conclusions that
reasonable stakeholders may draw when reviewing the related
information. The definition of materiality focuses on the
material information needs of the primary stakeholders for
the report being issued.14
For any disclosure to be useful it needs to address the interests
of the targeted user. From a traditional annual reporting
perspective, material information is traditionally defined
through an investor lens as: ‘any information that could be
expected to influence an investor’s economic decision making
with respect to the object of investment’. As outlined earlier
(section 1.2) sustainability issues can often meaningfully
affect a company’s operational and financial results, and thus
are ‘material’ in influencing investors’ perceptions of the
company. Many stakeholders have different interests in the
organisation’s performance, including specifically in
understanding the organisation’s significant impacts (positive
and negative) on the economy, society, and the environment.
The recently published prototypes developed by the IFRS
Foundation for the International Sustainability Standards
Board, and the TCFD Recommendations, both focus on
informing an assessment of enterprise value by investors
and other participants in the world’s capital markets, while the
GRI’s Sustainability Reporting Standards and the EU’s proposed
Corporate Sustainability Reporting Directive looks at materiality
though the lens of impacts on the economy, society, and the
environment. Recognising these different interests for
disclosure purposes, in 2017 the European Commission
introduced the concept of ‘double materiality’, comprising:
y Financial materiality, referring to the entity’s “development,
performance [and] position”
y Environmental and social materiality, referring to the
“impact of [the entity’s] activities”
The JSE’s Sustainability Disclosure Guidance has adopted this
double materiality approach, and recommends that:
y Those sustainability issues that could reasonably be
foreseen to meaningfully affect a company’s operational
and financial results, should be disclosed in an annual
integrated report; and
y More detailed sustainability information relating to the
organisation’s management of its significant impacts on the
economy, society, and the environment – including, but not
limited to, where these impacts affect enterprise value
– should be disclosed in addition to the IR in an appropriate
format, such as a separate sustainability report.
14 See eg European Commission’s Non-Financial Reporting Directive
18 JSE Limited Sustainability Disclosure Guidance 2021
MATERIALITY: MEETING
THE INFORMATION NEEDS
OF THE REPORT USER
Standard setters have provided diverse perspectives
on the issue of materiality for the purposes of an
organisation’s sustainability disclosure, reflecting
the different intended purpose and outcome of the
standard setting organisation. None of these
definitions are either ‘right’ or ‘wrong’: it is the context
that defines which of these definitions might be
more appropriate than the others.
y The International Accounting Standards Board
defines ‘material’ information as that which, if
omitted, misstated, or obscured, could influence
the economic decisions of readers relying on the
financial statements.
y The Value Reporting Foundation’s Integrated
Reporting Framework suggests a matter is
material if it “substantively affects the organisation’s
ability to create value over the short, medium and
long term.”
y The IFRS Foundation’s recommendations to the
ISSB, maintains that sustainability-related financial
information is material “if it influences users’
assessments of the value, timing and certainty
of the entity’s future cash flows.”
y The GRI’s 2021 Sustainability Reporting
Standards suggests that a sustainability topic is
material when it “represents the organisation’s
most significant impacts on the economy,
environment, and people, including impacts on
their human rights.”
JSE Limited Sustainability Disclosure Guidance 2021 19
15 See eg [Draft] International Sustainability Disclosure Standard General Requirements for Disclosure of Sustainability-related Financial Information
16 Extensive guidance on integrating reporting can be found on the Value Reporting Foundation’s website (https://www.integratedreporting.org/) and the
IRC SA website (https://integratedreportingsa.org/about/about-the-irc-of-sa/)
17 In South Africa, listed companies are required to use the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS).
2.2 Different reporting
formats
There are various reporting formats for disclosing
sustainability information. The chosen format depends
on the report’s purpose and its intended target audience
(see also Figure 1).
Annual Integrated Report – reporting on
enterprise value
In line with the King III and King IV Codes, most
JSE-listed companies have been producing integrated
reports annually since around 2011. An integrated
report is defined in the Value Reporting Foundation’s
Integrated Reporting Framework as “a concise
communication about how an organization’s strategy,
governance, performance and prospects, in the context
of its external environment, lead to the creation,
preservation or erosion of value over the short, medium
and long term.” Targeted primarily at providers of
financial capital, the focus of the integrated report is
explicitly on enterprise value; the report should thus
include disclosure of all sustainability-related risks and
opportunities that could impact the entity’s business
model, strategy, and cash flows over the short, medium
and long term. The proposed standards being developed
by the International Sustainability Standards Board
(ISSB)15 are intended to inform the identification of
sustainability-related financial information for inclusion
in ‘general purpose financial reporting’ (in South Africa
this is primarily the annual integrated report).16
Annual Sustainability Report –
reporting on sustainability impact
In line with global practice, many South African
companies publish separate sustainability reports; the
first such reports in the country were published by
various high impact companies in the mid-1990s.
These reports review the organisation’s approach to
managing its significant economic, social, and
environmental impacts, and to addressing those
sustainability issues of interest to a broader range of
stakeholders than targeted by the integrated report. An
important function of these reports is to reflect how the
organisation is contributing to national and global
development priorities (such as the NDP and the SDGs).
Many of these reports use the GRI Sustainability
Reporting Standards.
Combined Report
Some companies choose to combine their traditional
annual financial report with a more detailed review of
their sustainability/ ESG performance into a single
‘combined report’.
Annual Financial Statements
These provide a detailed analysis of the organisation’s
financial results, with audited financial statements
typically prepared in accordance with generally
accepted accounting practice17. These statements
present in monetary amounts the effects on enterprise
value that have already taken place at the reporting
date, or are included in future cash flow projections,
including those effects from sustainability issues.
Given increasing stakeholder expectations, some
organisations opt to publish additional ‘supplementary’
reports that provide more detailed disclosure in areas
of particular significance to their operations. Examples
include separate TCFD reports, human rights reports
and/or B-BBEE Reports.
An annual report serves two purposes: disclosure and
communication. However, not everything that needs to
be disclosed can or should go into an annual report. For
listed companies, quarterly results should be disclosed,
but this information is usually disclosed in earnings
releases. Some sustainability/ESG information of
interest to specific stakeholders may be better
communicated directly to those stakeholders than in a
report. For example, mining companies will often
disclose mining impacts to local communities online or
at community meetings, while the annual report of the
mining company may communicate the impact of
all the company’s mines. A materiality assessment can
help companies determine which issues are best
included in reporting, and which may be communicated
or disclosed to specific stakeholder groups through
other channels.
20 JSE Limited Sustainability Disclosure Guidance 2021
Figure 4: Materiality assessments inform organisation’s disclosure and communication18
Other Channels for
Disclosure Information:
• Quarterly reporting
• Earnings releases
• Shareholder meetings
• Website
Other Channels for
Disclosure Information:
• Website
• Press/media
• Community meetings
• Social media
Annual Report
combines disclosure
and communication
Disclosure Communication
18 Source: IFC “Beyond the Balance Sheet” Disclosure and Transparency Program
JSE Limited Sustainability Disclosure Guidance 2021 21
SEVEN QUESTIONS TO INFORM
THE REPORTING PROCESS19
MOTIVATION: What is the purpose of the report?
Be clear from the start on the purpose of the report as this will inform the approach. Is it simply to ensure
compliance with listing requirements, is it intended to be a frank disclosure informing investors the
company’s long-term strategy for value creation, or is it intended to review the organisation’s impacts on
sustainability?
MARKET: Who is the intended audience for the report?
For a report to be effective, it’s important to be clear which priority stakeholder group/s the organisation is
seeking to inform and influence through its disclosure, and what their specific interests are regarding the
organisation’s disclosure. It is not useful or effective for the organisation to attempt to address all the
information needs of all its stakeholders in one report.
MATERIALITY: What is of material interest to the target audience?
Having a clear understanding of the purpose of the report, and the target audience, is essential in identifying
what information to include in the report. If targeted at investors the primary focus will be on enterprise
value and it will thus include those sustainability issues impacting the organisation; if it’s targeted at those
stakeholders interested in the organisation’s social and environmental impacts, then it will have much
broader coverage of sustainability issues.
MEDIUM: What reporting format will work best for the target audience?
The purpose and audience will also inform the preferred reporting format. In some instances, the means
of disclosure will not be in the form of a traditional report, but may include direct engagements, marketing
documents or electronic media.
MEANS: How will the reporting process be managed and integrated across the business?
While reporting provides decision-useful information for stakeholders, the process of compiling the
information can be used to strengthen internal reporting systems and inform strategic goals, shape the
business model, and assist in identifying risks and opportunities. For these opportunities to be realised
there needs to be clarity on the internal process and responsibilities, ensuring that this is properly integrated
across the organisation and not managed in silos.
MEASUREMENT: Does the data support the report?
Better data can lead to better decision-making and performance; it is important to have the right internal
systems in place to collect and disseminate concise, reliable, and complete data. Rather than creating
entirely new channels, organisations should seek as far as possible to use existing internal management
and systems.
MONITORING: Has the integrity of the data been assured?
Reports are generally more credible when they are supported by robust internal assessment processes
involving existing internal audit, risk and data control verification systems. If resources allow, and when
properly managed, external assurance can provide an added degree of trust, credibility, and recognition. It is
important to recognise, however, that while third-party assurance can be valuable in strengthening internal
sustainability reporting systems and enhancing the credibility of reports, an overemphasis on external
assurance can be a distraction; it is better to start with reporting with no assurance rather than not start
reporting at all.20
19 Incite (2006) Presentation to University of Cambridge Institute for Sustainability Leadership (CISL) BSP Exec programme
20 Sustainable Stock Exchanges Initiative (2015) Model Guidance on Reporting ESG Information to Investors (page 18)
22 JSE Limited Sustainability Disclosure Guidance 2021
2.3 Principles for useful
sustainability data and an
effective sustainability report
With enhanced disclosure on sustainability issues
increasingly being demanded by investors, analysts,
capital market participants and other stakeholders, it
is important that the information is of sufficient quality
to enable users to make informed assessments and
decisions – be it about the organisation’s impacts and
its contribution to sustainable development, and/or
the organisation’s own viability over time. There is
significant convergence on the principles informing
effective sustainability reporting in international and
local guidance frameworks. Based on this, the following
key principles should guide the organisation in ensuring
the quality and proper presentation of the information
that is disclosed.21
Accuracy: The organisation should report information
that is correct and sufficiently detailed to allow an
assessment of the organisation’s impacts.
Balance: The organisation should report information
in an unbiased way and provide a fair representation
of the organisation’s negative and positive impacts.
Clarity: The organisation should present information
in a way that is accessible and understandable.
Comparability: The organisation should select,
compile, and report information consistently to enable
an analysis of changes in the organisation’s impacts
over time and an analysis of these impacts relative to
those of other organisations.
21 These principles are based almost entirely on the GRI’s recently released Sustainability Reporting Standards, and are consistent with the principles in
many of the initiatives listed in Annex 1.
Completeness: The organisation should provide
sufficient information to enable an assessment
of the organisation’s impacts during the reporting
period.
Material: in terms of enterprise value and/or impact
on society and the environment:
The reporting organisation should disclose
sustainability information that is reasonably capable of
making a difference to the conclusions drawn by:
y providers of finance concerning the ability of the
organisation to create long term value for the
organisation; and
y stakeholders more broadly concerning the
organisation’s most significant impacts on the
economy, environment, and people, including impacts
on their human rights
Stakeholder inclusive: The reporting organisation
should identify its stakeholders and explain how the
organisation has responded to their reasonable
expectations and interests.
Sustainability context: recognizing critical
environmental thresholds and social pressures:
The organization should report information about its
impacts in the wider context of sustainable
development.
Timeliness: The organisation should disclose
information on a regular schedule and make it available
in time for information users to make decisions.
Verifiability: The organisation should gather, record,
compile, and analyse information in such a way that the
information can be examined to establish its quality
JSE Limited Sustainability Disclosure Guidance 2021 23
What sustainability
information should a
company disclose?
03
24 JSE Limited Sustainability Disclosure Guidance 2021
JSE Limited Sustainability Disclosure Guidance 2021 25
Figure 5: The JSE Sustainability Narrative Disclosures and Sustainability Metrics
Investors and stakeholders are increasingly expecting companies to
report on their sustainability impacts, risks, and opportunities with the
same rigour as they do with financial information.
By reporting meaningfully on the proposed Sustainability Narrative Disclosures and Core and Leadership Sustainability
Metrics presented in this Disclosure Guidance – and integrating these considerations into the organisation’s governance,
strategy, and performance – the reporting organisation will send a signal to shareholders and other stakeholders
that it has a sound appreciation of the impacts, risks and opportunities associated with running its business.
Those organisations that align their goals to the long-term goals of society, as articulated for example in National
Development Plans and the UN SDGs, are most likely to create long-term sustainable value, driving positive outcomes
for their organisation, the economy, society, and the environment more broadly.
Governance
Management
NARRATIVE
DISCLOSURES
Environmental
metrics
Social metrics
Climate
Change
Water
Security
Pollution
and waste
Biodiversity
and land-use
Supply chain
and Materials Supply chain
Customer
responsibility
Health &
Safety
Human rights
& community
development
Labour
standards
Governance metrics
Strategy
Metric, targets
and performance
Board
composition
Compliance
and Risk
Management
Ethical Behaviour
Tax
transparency
26 JSE Limited Sustainability Disclosure Guidance 2021
3.1 Sustainability Narrative
Disclosures
The Sustainability Narrative Disclosures provided in this
section have been structured in broad alignment with
the two recently published prototypes developed for
consideration by the International Sustainability
Standards Board (ISSB),22 as well as with the TCFD
recommendations23 the CDSB Framework.24, the SDG
Disclosure Recommendations,25 and the GRI’s
Sustainability Reporting Standards.26
The Narrative Disclosures have been slightly revised
from the ISSB, TCFD and CDSB recommendations to
ensure alignment with ‘double materiality’; the review of
management issues has been extended beyond risk
management, and explicit provision is made for an
assessment of the organisation’s impacts on the
economy, society, and the environment.
Governance
Investors and other stakeholders have an interest in
understanding the role played by the organisation’s
board in overseeing sustainability issues – such
information informs an assessment as to whether
these issues are receiving appropriate board and
management attention.
Recommended disclosure
Describe the board’s oversight of sustainability-related
impacts, risks and opportunities, and its process for
integrating sustainability issues into the overall
governance processes.
In describing the board’s oversight of sustainability
issues, the organisation should disclose the following
information:
y The process by which that the board sets the direction
for sustainability considerations, including disclosing
which board committee/s and/or individuals are
responsible for oversight of sustainability-related
impacts, risks, and opportunities, and how these
responsibilities are reflected in the terms of reference,
board mandates, and other relevant entity policies.
y The processes and frequency by which the board
and/or board committees are informed about material
sustainability issues, and the company’s interaction
with the broader sustainability context, including any
significant negative effects that the organisation’s
operations have had on people, the environment,
and economy.
y The processes whereby the board ensures that
material sustainability considerations are
integrated in:
(i) board appointments, ensuring that the correct
skills and competencies are available to
oversee strategies designed to respond to
sustainability-related risks and opportunities
(ii) risk and opportunity assessments, evaluations,
and responses
(iii) the development and monitoring of strategy
implementation, through budgets, business
plans and performance targets
(iv) the internal reward systems, including by
incorporating any performance metrics and
targets on material sustainability issues within
remuneration policies
(v) the organisation’s stakeholder engagement,
disclosure, and assurance activities.
y The process the board follows in assessing the
sustainability goals and targets that have been
set, and for monitoring progress against these
goals and targets, and responding accordingly.
y The organisational structure/s and managementlevel responsibilities for assessing and managing
sustainability-related impacts, risks, and
opportunities.
22 General Requirements for Disclosure of Sustainability-related Financial Information Prototype and Climate-related Disclosures Prototype (both
published on 3 November 2021) – available at https://www.ifrs.org
23 https://www.fsb-tcfd.org
24 www.cdsb.net
25 https://integratedreporting.org/resource/sustainable-development-goals-disclosure-sdgd-recommendations/
26 https://www.globalreporting.org/standards/
JSE Limited Sustainability Disclosure Guidance 2021 27
Strategy
Investors and other stakeholders need to understand
how sustainability issues may affect an organisation’s
business model, strategy, and financial planning over
the short, medium, and long term; such information
is used to inform expectations about the future
performance and impacts of the organisation.
Recommended disclosure
Describe how an assessment of sustainability-related
impacts, risks and opportunities has influenced the
organisation’s strategy, and what impact this has had
on the organisation’s overall performance, both
positive and negative.
In describing how sustainability issues inform strategy,
the organisation should disclose the following
information:
y The nature and outcome of the processes in place
to determine the organisation’s material sustainability
issues, including an assessment of:
(i) the organisation’s most significant positive and
negative impacts on the economy, society,
and the environment, over the short, medium,
and long term; and
(ii) the most significant sustainability-related risks
and opportunities that the organisation reasonably
expects could positively or negatively impact its
business model, strategy, and cash flows over
the short, medium, and long term – and the
impact of these risks and opportunities on
enterprise value.
y How the organisation defines short, medium, and
long term, and how these definitions are linked to the
organisation’s strategic planning horizons and capital
allocation plans.
y Any trade-offs between sustainability-related risks and
opportunities that were considered by management in
their decision-making.
y How the identified material sustainability issues have
informed the organisation’s business model, its strategic
objectives and targets, and financial planning, over
the short, medium, and long term, recognising that
sustainability issues often manifest themselves over
the medium and longer term.
y The nature, extent, and outcomes of any analysis,
including scenario analysis, undertaken to test the
resilience of the organisation’s strategy, considering
the likelihood and magnitude of material sustainabilityrelated impacts, risks and opportunities in its operations,
its products and services, its value chain, and its
investment research and development activities.
y Commentary on the value created, preserved, or
eroded for the organisation, its stakeholders, and
society and the environment more broadly, as a result
of implementing its strategy.
28 JSE Limited Sustainability Disclosure Guidance 2021
Management approach
Investors and other stakeholders need to understand
how an organisation has integrated sustainability issues
into the organisation’s management processes; such
information informs assessments of the organisation’s
overall risk profile and performance prospects.
Recommended disclosure
Describe how sustainability-related impacts, risks
and opportunities have been integrated into the
organisation’s management processes.
In describing the integration of sustainability issues
in the organisation’s management processes, the
organisation should disclose the following information:
y The processes in place for identifying, assessing,
prioritising, monitoring, and managing sustainabilityrelated risks and opportunities, and how these
processes are integrated into the organisation’s
existing risk and opportunity management systems.
y The steps taken to facilitate access to a diversity
of perspectives in identifying and prioritising
sustainability-related impacts, risks, and opportunities.
y The ways in which management processes (such as
planning, organising, staffing, and coordinating)
have been adapted to enhance sustainability
decision-making and action.
y The processes by which the leadership team
systematically tracks, reflects on, and responds
to sustainability progress and performance.
Metrics, targets, and
performance
Investors and other stakeholders need to understand
how an organisation measures and monitors its
sustainability strategy, performance, and impacts.
Access to the metrics and targets used by an
organisation allows investors and other stakeholders to
better assess the organisation’s exposure to sustainability
issues, and its progress in managing those issues and
its impacts, as well as providing a basis to compare
organisations within a sector or industry.
Recommended disclosure
Describe the performance metrics and targets used by
the organisation to measure, monitor, and manage its
sustainability impacts, risks and opportunities, and its
performance against these metrics and targets.
In describing its sustainability metrics, targets, and
performance, the organisation should disclose the
following information:
y The metrics and targets used to measure, monitor,
and manage the organisation’s performance against
its material sustainability-related impacts, risks, and
opportunities, including any cross-industry, sectorbased and entity-specific activity metrics.
y The methodologies used to calculate or estimate
the metrics and targets, where this is not
immediately apparent.
y The nature of its sustainability targets, including
where relevant:
(i) whether the target is absolute, normalised,
intensity, or activity- based
(ii) the timeframe over which the target applies
(iii) the base period from which progress is
measured
(iv) any milestones or interim targets.
y The nature of any changes to metrics or targets,
explaining the reasons for these changes, including
(where practical and appropriate) any restated
comparative figures.
y A response to each of the Core Metrics listed in the
JSE Disclosure Guidance, or a description as to why
these are not disclosed and/or not seen to be
material, and what steps are being taken to start
disclosing those that are material.
y The organisation’s performance against its
sustainability metrics and targets, with provision
for a suitable historical period to allow for trend
analysis.
JSE Limited Sustainability Disclosure Guidance 2021 29
Governance Disclosure Metrics
GOVERNANCE METRICS: Core (C) and Leadership (L)
BOARD COMPOSITION
Board diversity
and competence C
Composition of the board and its committees by: race; gender, membership of
under-represented social groups, and stakeholder groups competencies relating
to the risks, opportunities and management of economic, environmental, and
social issues.
Board independence C
Composition of the board in relation to: executive or non-executive; independence;
tenure on the governance body; number of each individual’s other significant
positions and commitments, and the nature of the commitments.
Remuneration
practices C
How performance criteria in the remuneration policies relate to the highest
governance body and senior executives’ objectives for economic, environmental,
and social topics, as connected to the company’s stated purpose, strategy and
long-term value.
3.2 Core and Leadership
Sustainability Metrics
The Sustainability Metrics presented in this Disclosure
Guidance have been informed by a thorough review of
current sustainability disclosure expectations and
emerging best practice, with explicit provision for South
Africa’s business context and developmental
challenges.
The Core (C) and Leadership (L) metrics seek to balance
the desirability of a ‘simple list’ with an applied materiality
principle. The metrics include revisions to the approach
used in some of the peer exchanges to provide for:
y Greater use of outcome and impact indicators, over
simple input and output measures
y The double materiality perspective that is gaining
increasing recognition, including specifically as part
of the European Union’s proposed Corporate
Sustainability Reporting Directive (CSRD)
y South Africa’s specific environmental, social and
governance challenges
y Recognition of planetary boundaries and emerging
global expectations on social performance
An organisation’s materiality landscape is dynamic. It is
important to recognise that organisation’s need to
determine their own material matters, at appropriate
intervals, and that this list is not intended to be
exhaustive or prescriptive.
Note: further detail on each metric is provided in a
separate Excel sheet, with details on: the metric’s
measurement unit; cross-reference to its use in existing
standards (eg SASB and GRI); and a rationale for each
metric. These details will be included in the final design
version of this document following feedback on these
metrics in the public consultation process. An example
of the suggested presentation for each metric is provided
in the social and environmental sections below.
30 JSE Limited Sustainability Disclosure Guidance 2021
ETHICAL BEHAVIOUR
Anti-corruption
C
Total percentage of governance body members, employees and business
partners who have received training on the organization’s anti-corruption policies
and procedures, broken down by region.
C Total number and nature of incidents of corruption confirmed during the current
year, related to this year and previous years.
C
Description of the organisation’s provision for whistleblowing, and the number
and nature of issues raised through the whistleblowing facility, and how these
were resolved.
L Discussion of initiatives and stakeholder engagement to improve the broader
operating environment and culture, to combat corruption.
L
A description of: (i) the internal and external mechanisms for seeking advice
about ethical and lawful behaviour and organizational integrity, and for reporting
concerns about unethical or unlawful behaviour and lack of organisational
integrity; and (ii) the extent to which these mechanisms have been used, and the
outcomes of processes using these mechanisms.
Lobbying and political
contributions C
Identify the significant issues that are the focus of the company’s participation in
public policy development and lobbying, including within any business association
that the company is a member of; describe the company’s strategy relevant to
these areas of focus; and any differences between its lobbying positions and its
purpose, stated policies, goals or other public positions.
C Total amount of political contributions made per political party.
Monetary loss from
unethical behaviour C
Total amount of monetary losses as a result of legal proceedings (including fines)
associated with fraud, insider trading, anti-trust, anti-competitive behaviour,
market manipulation, malpractice or violations of other related industry laws or
regulations.
COMPLIANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT
Incidents C
Number and nature of significant environmental, social and/or governance related
incidents, including incidents of legal non-compliance (whether under investigation,
pending finalisation, or finalised) and directives, compliance notices, warnings or
investigations, and any public controversies.
Fines C
Total number of fines, settlements and penalties paid in relation to ESG incidents
or breaches, including individual and total cost of the fines, settlements and
penalties paid in relation to ESG incidents or breaches.
TAX TRANSPARENCY
Tax paid and
estimated tax gap
C
The total global tax borne by the company, including corporate income taxes,
property taxes, non-creditable VAT and other sales taxes, employer-paid payroll
taxes and other taxes that constitute costs to the company, by category of taxes.
C
Extent of exposure to countries and jurisdictions recognised for their corporate
tax rate, tax transparency and tax haven status; estimated tax gap (gap between
estimated effective tax rate and estimated statutory tax rate).
JSE Limited Sustainability Disclosure Guidance 2021 31
Social Disclosure Metrics
SOCIAL METRICS: Core (C) and Leadership (L)
LABOUR STANDARDS
Diversity and
inclusion
C Percentage of employees per employee category, by race, gender, age, and other
indicators of diversity.
C
Number of reports of discrimination and harassment incidents, investigation
status of reported incidents, and actions taken and the total amount of monetary
losses as a result of legal proceedings associated with (i) law violations and
(ii) employment discrimination.
Pay equality
C Ratio of CEO’s total annual compensation to median total annual compensation
of all employees (excluding the CEO).
L
Ratio of the basic salary and remuneration for each employee category by
significant locations of operation for priority areas of equality, including by race,
gender, and other relevant equality areas.
Wage level C Ratios of standard entry-level wage by race and gender compared to local
minimum wage for the sector.
L
Mean pay gap of basic salary and remuneration of full-time relevant employees
based on gender (women to men) and indicators of race at a company level or by
significant location of operation.
Living wage L Current wages against an identified ‘living wage’ for employees and contractors in
states and localities where the company is operating.
Freedom of
Association and
Collective Bargaining
C Percentage of active workforce covered under collective bargaining agreements
L
An explanation of the assessment performed on suppliers for which the right to
freedom of association and collective bargaining is at risk including measures
taken by the organization to address these risks.
Temporary workers C Ratio of temporary workers to permanent workers (and absolute numbers of each),
broken down by gender and racial group.
HUMAN RIGHTS AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
Human rights (see
also supply chain
below)
C Total number and percentage of operations that have been subject to human
rights reviews or human rights impact assessments, by country.
C Number and type of grievances reported with associated impacts related to a
salient human right issues in the reporting period and an explanation of impacts.
Skills for the future
C
Average hours of training per person that the organization’s employees have
undertaken during the reporting period, by gender and employee category (total
number of trainings provided to employees divided by the number of employees).
C Average training and development expenditure per full time employee.
Employment and
wealth creation
C Total number and rate of new employee hires during the reporting period, by age
group, gender, other indicators of diversity and region.
C Total number and rate of employee turnover during the reporting period, by age
group, gender, other indicators of diversity and region.
32 JSE Limited Sustainability Disclosure Guidance 2021
HUMAN RIGHTS AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT continued
Economic
Contribution
C
Direct economic value generated and distributed (EVG&D) – on an accrual basis,
covering the basic components for the organisation’s global operations, ideally
split out by:
(i) Revenue
(ii) Operating Costs
(iii) Employee wages and benefits
(iv) Payments to providers of capital
(v) Payments to government
(vi) Community investment (including charitable giving, impact investment and
other forms of social investment).
C
Description of significant identified indirect economic impacts of the organisation,
including for example: number of jobs supported in supply or distribution chain;
number of suppliers / enterprises supported from defined vulnerable groups;
nature of economic development in areas of high poverty; availability of products
and services for those on low incomes or previously disadvantaged; enhanced
skills and knowledge in a professional community or geographic location.
C Proportion of procurement spending on suppliers local to the organisation’s
operations and/or from defined vulnerable groups.
L Qualitative disclosure describing the extent of significant infrastructure investment
and services supported.
L
Financial assistance received from the government – Total monetary value of
financial assistance received by the organization from any government during
the reporting period.
HEALTH AND SAFETY
Workplace health
and safety
C
Number and rate of fatalities during reporting period across the organisation. The
disclosure should include both employees and workers who are not employees
but whose work and/or workplace is controlled by the organisation.
C
Number of recordable work-related injuries, and number of work-related illnesses
or health conditions arising from exposure to hazards at work, during the reporting
period. The disclosure should include both employees and workers who are not
employees but whose work and/or workplace is controlled by the organisation.
L
An explanation of how the organization facilitates workers’ access to nonoccupational medical and healthcare services and the scope of access provided
for employees and workers.
JSE Limited Sustainability Disclosure Guidance 2021 33
CUSTOMER RESPONSIBILITY
High risk products
and services
L
Description of products and services that present specific risks to individuals,
communities or the environment; an outline of the nature of these risks, and the
measures taken to mitigate these.
C Number and nature of any product recalls.
Product innovation
C Total costs related to research and development aimed at enhancing social or
environmental attributes of products and services.
L
Percentage of revenue from products and services designed to deliver specific
social or environmental benefits or to address specific sustainability challenges;
if the company applies a taxonomy or benchmark to label their activities as
sustainable, they should report on the benchmark used and how they meet the
criteria of the benchmark.
Consumer data
and privacy
C A description of the mechanisms and steps taken to ensure privacy of consumer
data.
C Number and types of breaches reported in relation to consumer data privacy
SUPPLY CHAIN
Supply Chain
(Social)
C
Report wherever material across the value chain, mechanisms aimed at
enhancing management of social issues (codes, policies, prevention, and
treatment).
C
An explanation of suppliers considered to have significant risk for incidents of child
labour, forced or compulsory labour. Such risks could emerge in relation to type of
operation (such as manufacturing plant) and type of supplier; or countries or
geographic areas with operations and suppliers considered at risk.
L % of products certified by external agencies, % of traceable origin.
Following is an example of the proposed presentation for each metric in the final Guidance
LABOUR STANDARDS
Diversity and
inclusion
1. Percentage of employees per employee category, by race, gender, age, and other
indicators of diversity (CORE).
2. Number of reports of discrimination and harassment incidents, investigation status
of reported incidents, and actions taken and the total amount of monetary losses as
a result of legal proceedings associated with (1) law violations and (2) employment
discrimination (CORE).
How is it measured 1. Quantitative metric – % of employees by category.
2. # and description.
Context/Rationale Organisations with higher levels of diversity, particularly within executive teams, are
generally better able to innovate, attract top talent, improve their customer orientation,
enhance employee satisfaction, and secure their license to operate.
To be effective, organisational culture should be built on a foundation of respect, courtesy,
and professionalism, free from any acts of discrimination, bullying or harassment.
Link to standards
and frameworks
GRI 405-1; GRI 406-1; SASB 310; SASB 330; WEF
34 JSE Limited Sustainability Disclosure Guidance 2021
Environmental Disclosure Metrics
ENVIRONMENTAL: Core (C) and Leadership (L)
CLIMATE CHANGE
GHG Emissions
C
For all relevant greenhouse gases (e.g. carbon dioxide, methane, nitrous oxide,
F-gases etc.), report in metric tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent (tCO2e) GHG
Protocol Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions.
L Estimate and report material upstream and downstream (GHG Protocol Scope 3)
emissions where appropriate.
Energy mix C
Total energy use and share of energy usage by generation type noting use of
energy from renewable non-fossil sources, (namely wind, solar (solar thermal
and solar photovoltaic) and geothermal energy, ambient energy, tide, wave and
other ocean energy, hydropower, biomass, landfill gas, sewage treatment plant
gas, and biogas).
Science-based
targets
L
Define and report progress against time-bound short, medium, and long-term
science-based GHG emissions targets (see also the Narrative Disclosure on Metrics,
Targets and Performance) that are in line with the goals of the Paris Agreement
and Glasgow Climate Pact. This includes reducing global carbon dioxide emissions
by 45% by 2030 relative to the 2010 level, and to net zero around mid-century, on
the basis of the best available scientific knowledge and equity, taking into account
common but differentiated responsibilities and respective capabilities, and in the
context of sustainable development and efforts to eradicate poverty. Science-based
emissions reduction targets should be informed by recognised scientific methodologies
and verified through approved processes, and should as a minimum be consistent
with relevant host country/ies Nationally Determined Contribution.
Just transition
C
Existence and nature of a ‘just transition plan’ that commits to stakeholder
engagement with workers and communities (see the JSE Climate Disclosure
Guidance for further detail).
L Number of engagements undertaken with affected parties by group and
geography.
L Number of workers in the past year retrained, retrenched, and/or compensated
due to implementation of the decarbonisation plan.
L
Nature of climate-related lobbying activities, and those of relevant associations
and membership groups, and their alignment with the objectives of the Paris
Agreement and Glasgow Climate Pact.
L Nature of provision for delivery of the transition plan within executive remuneration
L Nature of provision for impacts on workers and communities within climate
scenario plans.
L Level of capital or expenditure deployed toward climate adaptation and climate
mitigation projects.
JSE Limited Sustainability Disclosure Guidance 2021 35
WATER SECURITY
Water usage
C Total amount of fresh water consumed.
C Fresh water consumption intensity (water use/sales).
L
Report for operations where material, mega litres of water withdrawn, mega litres
of water consumed and the percentage of each in regions with high or extremely
high baseline water stress according to WRI Aqueduct water risk atlas tool.
POLLUTION AND WASTE
Solid waste C Total solid waste generation (non-recycled).
C Total hazardous waste generation.
L Total waste recycled.
C Waste intensity (total waste/sales).
Single use plastic L
Report wherever material along the value chain: estimated metric tonnes of
single-use plastic consumed and share (%) of single-use plastic weight of total
plastic weight.
Atmospheric
pollution
C
Report wherever material along the value chain: nitrogen oxides (NOx), sulphur
oxides (SOx), Volatile Organic Compounds, particulate matter and other significant
air emissions.
L Wherever possible estimate the proportion of specified emissions that occur in or
adjacent to urban/densely populated areas.
 Water pollution L Estimate and report wherever material along the value chain: metric tonnes of
nitrogen, phosphorous and potassium in fertilizer consumed.
Biodiversity
and land use
C
Report the number and area (in hectares) of sites owned, leased or managed in or
adjacent to protected areas and/or key biodiversity areas (KBA). Report for
operations (if applicable) and full supply chain (if material).
C Area of land used for the production of basic plant, animal or mineral commodities
(e.g. the area of land used for forestry, agriculture or mining activities).
L
Percentage of land area in point 1 above covered by a sustainability certification
standard or formalized sustainability management programme; Percentage of
land area in point 2 above covered by a sustainability certification programme or
formalized sustainability management system.
SUPPLY CHAIN AND MATERIALS
Supply chain
(environmental) L Report wherever material across the value chain, mechanisms aimed at enhancing
management of environmental issues (codes, policies, prevention, and treatment).
Materials of concern
C
Process to identify and manage emerging materials and chemicals of concern in
products (materials of concern could include conflict minerals or recognised high
impact raw materials such as palm oil).
L
Percentage of materials identified in point 1 above that are covered by a
sustainability certification standard or formalized sustainability management
programme.
36 JSE Limited Sustainability Disclosure Guidance 2021
Following is an example of the proposed presentation for each metric in the final Guidance
CLIMATE CHANGE
Greenhouse Gas
Emissions
1. For all relevant greenhouse gases (e.g. carbon dioxide, methane, nitrous oxide,
F-gases etc.), report in metric tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent (tCO2e) (CORE).
2. Estimate and report material upstream and downstream (GHG Protocol Scope 3)
emissions where appropriate. (LEADERSHIP).
How is it Measured 1. Total amount, in CO2-e for Scope 1 and Scope 2 (if applicable) – Trend for at least
three years.
2. Total amount, in CO2-e for Scope 3 (if applicable) – Trend for at least three years.
Context/Rationale GHG emissions are a primary driver of climate change, which is expected to have
increasingly significant economic, environmental, and social impacts. As a result, GHGs
are a key focus area for policy, regulatory, market and technology responses to limit rising
temperatures. Organisations with emission-intensive business models are likely to face
greater risks from the transition to a lower emission economy in terms of increased
regulatory requirements and additional capital expenditure. Climate risk assessments
depend on understanding the entire emission profile. For many organisations, the most
significant GHG emissions are found in their supply chains, not in their own operations.
Reporting on Scope 3 emissions can assist the identification of potential supply chain
risks in terms of exposure to the transition to a lower emission economy. It can also help
improve energy efficiency and cost reduction programmes.
Link to standards
and frameworks
GRI 305:1-3; SASB 110; TCFD; GHG Protocol
JSE Limited Sustainability Disclosure Guidance 2021 37
Annexes
04
38 JSE Limited Sustainability Disclosure Guidance 2021
Annex 1: Global and regional
standards and frameworks
relating to sustainability
disclosure
CDP (formerly the Carbon Disclosure Project)
CDP collects standardised information from companies
on climate change and the use of natural resources
such as water and forests.
Climate Action 100+ Net Zero Company Benchmark
Disclosure Indicators
The Benchmark assesses the performance of focus
companies against the initiative’s three high-level goals:
emissions reduction, governance, and disclosure. The
benchmark helps investor signatories evaluate company
ambition and action in tackling climate change.
Climate Disclosure Standards Board (CDSB)
Issued by the Climate Disclosure Standards Board, the
CDSB Framework helps companies explain how
environmental matters affect their performance and
show how they are addressing associated risks and
opportunities to investors in annual or integrated
reports.
EU Corporate Sustainability Reporting Directive
(CSRD)
In April 2021, the Commission adopted a proposal for a
Corporate Sustainability Reporting Directive (CSRD)
that would amend the existing reporting requirements
of the NFRD, extending the scope to all large
companies and all companies listed on regulated
markets (except listed micro-enterprises), and
introducing more detailed reporting requirement.
EU Non-Financial Reporting Directive
The EU Non-Financial Reporting Directive (NFRD)
establishes a minimum standard for SUSTAINABILITY
reporting for large public interest companies across the
EU. The Directive requires the largest companies to
report on environmental matters, social and employee
affairs, human rights, anti-corruption and bribery issues,
and diversity on company boards.
EU Sustainable Finance Disclosure Regulation (SFDR)
The EU SFDR applies to financial market participants
ranging from asset managers to financial advisors. It
aims to increase transparency in how sustainability
risks and opportunities are integrated into the
investment decisions and recommendations of
financial market players.
EU Taxonomy Regulation
The EU Taxonomy Regulation is a classification system
for sustainable economic activities. It defines which
economic activities can be considered environmentally
sustainable. It focuses on environmental considerations,
with social and governance factors to be included by
the end of 2021.
GRI (formerly Global Reporting Initiative)
The GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards, issued by
the Global Sustainability Standards Board (GSSB), are
the most widely used standards for sustainability
reporting, developed over many years with multistakeholder input. It offers a set of modular standards
to enable organisations to report on their sustainability
impacts against universal standards and sector-specific
standards.
IFC’s Corporate Governance Methodology
This is an approach to evaluate and improve the corporate
governance of a company – including the governance
attributes of key environmental and social policies
and procedures – to identify, reduce, and manage risk.
Its use can help a company confirm its commitment
to demonstrate leadership and promote effective
environmental, social, and corporate governance
throughout the company.
IFC’s Performance Standards on Environmental
and Social Sustainability
These standards define IFC clients’ responsibilities for
managing the environmental and social risks of their
projects in emerging markets, provide guidance on how
to identify risks and impacts, and are designed to help
avoid, mitigate, and manage risks and impacts as a
way of doing business in a more sustainable way.
IFC’s Toolkit for Disclosure and Transparency
The Toolkit is designed to guide companies in preparing
comprehensive and best-in-class disclosures that
reflects investors’ views of what drives corporate value.
The tool provides progressive guidance on the disclosure
of material information about a company’s strategy,
governance, and performance—including the impact of
sustainability factors and the contribution to
sustainable development.
IFRS Foundation International Sustainability
Standards Board
The International Financial Reporting Standards
Foundation is a public interest organisation established
to develop globally accepted accounting standards. In
response to investor calls for comparable sustainability
reporting the Foundation Trustees are working on the
creation of a proposed new standard-setting board—
International Sustainability Standards Board (ISSB).
JSE Limited Sustainability Disclosure Guidance 2021 39
ISO 26000
ISO 26000 is an international guidance standard on
social responsibility. In addition to its specific guidance
on sustainability disclosure, it includes detailed
guidance on the fundamental expectations of socially
responsible behaviour, derived primarily from
authoritative international instruments.
ISO 37000:2021 Governance of organizations
ISO 37000 provides principles and key aspects of
practices to guide governing bodies and governing
groups on how to meet their responsibilities so that the
organizations they govern can fulfil their purpose. It is
also intended for stakeholders involved in, or impacted
by, the organization and its governance. It is applicable
to all organizations regardless of type, size, location,
structure or purpose.
OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises
The Guidelines are far-reaching recommendations
addressed by governments to multinational enterprises
operating. They provide voluntary principles and
standards for responsible business conduct in areas
such as employment and industrial relations, human
rights, environment, information disclosure, combating
bribery, consumer interests, science and technology,
competition, and taxation.
SDG Disclosure Recommendations
The Sustainable Development Goals Disclosure (SDGD)
Recommendations seek to establish best practice for
corporate reporting on the SDGs and enable more
effective and standardized reporting and transparency
on climate change, social and other environmental
impacts. The report was published by the global
accountancy bodies, IFAC, ACCA, ICAS, CA ANZ, as well
as the IIRC and World Benchmarking Alliance.
South African Green Finance Taxonomy
South Africa’s National Treasury published a draft
Technical Paper on Financing a Sustainable Economy
in May 2020 to unlock access to sustainable finance
and stimulate the allocation of capital to support a
development-focused and climate-resilient economy.
One of the recommendations is to “develop or adopt a
taxonomy for green, social and sustainable finance
initiatives, consistent with international developments,
to build credibility, foster investment and enable
effective monitoring and disclosure of performance.”
Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures
(TCFD)
The Financial Stability Board established the TCFD in
December 2015 to develop recommendations for more
effective climate-related disclosures that could promote
more informed investment, credit, and insurance
underwriting decisions and, in turn, enable stakeholders
to understand better the concentrations of carbonrelated assets in the financial sector and the financial
system’s exposures to climate-related risks. The TCFD
recommendations were published in June 2017.
UN Global Compact (UNGC) Principles
The Global Compact requires companies to commit to
a set of ten universal principles concerning human
rights, labour, environment, and anti-corruption.
UN Sustainable Stock Exchanges Initiative Model
Reporting Guidelines
The Model Guidance is a voluntary tool for stock
exchanges to guide issuers on how to report on
environmental, social and governance (ESG) issues.
Value Reporting Foundation: Integrated Reporting
Framework
Issued by the International Integrated Reporting Council
(IIRC), which has recently merged with SASB to form
the Value Reporting Foundation, the Integrated
Reporting Framework helps companies to produce a
concise, investor-focused report that looks at an
issuer’s performance and prospects through the lens of
six ‘capitals’ (financial, manufactured, human, natural,
intellectual, social and relationship).
Value Reporting Foundation: Sustainability
Accounting Standards Board (SASB)
SASB issues sustainability accounting standards that
help public corporations disclose material and decisionuseful information to investors in their mandatory
filings, based on their industry, in line with the notion
that under existing regulation material information
should be disclosed in the Forms 10-K or 20-F.
WEF Measuring Stakeholder Capitalism
Developed in response to a call from 120 of the world’s
largest companies to develop a set of common metrics
on non-financial factors, this document provides a core
and expanded set of metrics to be used by companies
to align their reporting on sustainability and ESG
performance and track their contributions to the SDGs.
The metrics are based on existing standards, with the
aim of accelerating convergence in sustainability
disclosures.
World Benchmarking Alliance (WBA)
The WBA has identified seven systems transformations
needed to achieve the SDGs and is developing a series
of publicly available benchmarks to assess the
contributions of the 2,000 most influential companies
to the SDGs. A series of indicators have been (and are
being) developed with associated indicators.
40 JSE Limited Sustainability Disclosure Guidance 2021
JSE Limited Sustainability Disclosure Guidance 2021 41
JSE Sustainability Disclosure Guidance
ISSB: General Requirements for
Disclosure of Sustainability-related
Financial Information Purpose of
the Disclosure
Document
Provides guidance to JSE listed companies on the
disclosure of sustainability-related impacts, risks,
and opportunities – to meet calls from investors
and other stakeholders for more consistent,
complete, comparable, and verifiable metrics and
narrative disclosures
Sets out the overall requirements for
disclosing sustainability-related financial
information relevant to the sustainabilityrelated risks and opportunities of the entity
– to assist the primary users of ‘general
purpose financial reporting’ in deciding
whether to provide resources to the entity.
Target users of
the disclosed
information
All stakeholders with an interest in the reporting
entity’s sustainability-related impacts, risks, and
opportunities, including investors specifically on the
sustainability-related risks and opportunities
impacting enterprise value
Primary users of general purpose financial
reporting – namely existing and potential
investors, lenders and other creditors.
Disclosure
channel/s
covered by
the Guidance/
Prototype
Integrated reports – disclosure to investors and
other creditors about sustainability matters that
affect their assessment of enterprise value
Sustainability reports – disclosures to
stakeholders about impacts on people,
the environment, and the economy
Annual financial report – disclosures to investors,
lenders and other creditors about monetary
amounts included in the financial statements
General purpose financial reports –
disclosure to investors, lenders and other
creditors about sustainability matters that
affect their assessment of enterprise value
Approach to
materiality
Double materiality – impact and enterprise value
The JSE’s Sustainability Disclosure Guidance has
adopted the double materiality approach, and
recommends that those sustainability issues that
could reasonably be foreseen to meaningfully affect
a company’s operational and financial results should
be disclosed in an annual integrated report; and that
information relating to the organisation’s significant
impacts on the economy, society, and the environment
– including, but not limited to, where these impacts
affect enterprise value – should be in addition to
the IR in an appropriate format, such as a separate
sustainability report.
Single materiality – enterprise value
Information is material if it would “assist
users in predicting the value, timing and
certainty of the entity’s future cash flows,
over the short, medium and long term, and
therefore their assessment of enterprise
value.” Sustainability matters that do not
affect enterprise value are outside the scope
of general purpose financial reporting.
28 Both documents, published on 3 November 2021, represent recommendations from the Technical Readiness Working Group (TRWG) for consideration by the
International Sustain ability Standards Board (ISSB). While the recommendations build on the established work of the organisations represented on the TRWG
(CDSB, IFRS Foundation, TCFD, VRF and WEF), these documents have not been subject to the due process of those organisations or the IFRS Foundation.
The ISSB is expected to consult publicly, informed by the TRWG’s recommendations, and its work will be subject to the IFRS Foundation’s due process.
Annex 2: JSE Disclosure Guidance, the ISSB Protocols
and the EU CSRD – A brief comparison
The JSE Sustainability Disclosure Guidance has been developed to ensure full alignment with key global disclosure
initiatives, while providing for South Africa’s business context and its particular social and environmental challenges.
The following table compares the JSE Guidance with three recent and potentially significant initiatives – two
42 JSE Limited Sustainability Disclosure Guidance 2021
ISSB: Climate-related Disclosures Prototype
EU Corporate Sustainability Reporting Directive
(CSRD)
Sets out the requirements for the identification,
measurement, and disclosure of climate-related
financial information – to assist the primary users of
‘general purpose financial reporting’ in deciding whether
to provide resources to the entity.
Improve sustainability reporting at least possible cost,
contribute to the transition towards a sustainable and
inclusive economy, enhance clarity and certainty on
issues to disclose, reduce competing demands on
companies for sustainability information, promote
convergence and harmonisation
Primary users of general purpose financial reporting –
namely existing and potential investors, lenders and
other creditors.
Two primary users: investors, including asset
managers, who want to better understand the risks
and opportunities that sustainability issues pose to
their investments, and the impacts of these
investment; and other stakeholders that wish to hold
organisations to account for their sustainability
impacts
General purpose financial reports – disclosure to
investors, lenders and other creditors about climaterelated issues that affect their assessment of enterprise
value
Annual management reports and annual financial
statements
Organisations should prepare their financial
statements and management report in XHTML format
and mark-up sustainability information in accordance
with relevant regulations, and tagged according to an
agreed digital taxonomy
Single materiality – enterprise value
Information is material if it would “assist users in
predicting the value, timing and certainty of the entity’s
future cash flows, over the short, medium and long term,
and therefore their assessment of enterprise value.”
Sustainability matters that do not affect enterprise value
are outside the scope of general purpose financial
reporting.
Double materiality – impact and enterprise value
Organisations required to report both on how
sustainability matters affect the entity, and on the
impacts of the activities of the organisation on people
and the environment – referred to as the doublemateriality perspective, in which the risks to the
undertaking and the impacts of the undertaking each
represent one materiality perspective
29 European Commission COM (2021) 189 final; 2021/0104 (COD), aimed at revising the Non-Financial Reporting Directive, inter alia extending the scope
to all large companies and all companies listed on regulated markets (except micro-enterprises), as well as introducing more detailed reporting
requirements
prototypes being developed for the ISSB28, and the proposed EU Directive on Corporate Sustainability Reporting29 –
and highlights the strong alignment between the JSE Guidance and these initiatives
JSE Limited Sustainability Disclosure Guidance 2021 43
JSE Sustainability Disclosure Guidance
ISSB: General Requirements for
Disclosure of Sustainability-related
Financial Information Disclosure
guidance
Narrative
disclosures
Disclosure guidance on:
(a) governance
(b) strategy
(c) management
(d) metrics, targets and performance
Note: the JSE has ensured consistency in
the details within each of above narrative disclosures
with those provided in the
ISSB Protocol and EU Directive
Disclosure guidance on:
(a) governance
(b) strategy
(c) risk management
(d) metrics and targets
Disclosure
guidance
Specific metrics
Core and Leadership metrics on:
Governance
y Board composition
y Ethical behaviour
y Compliance and risk
y Tax transparency
Social
y Labour standards
y Human rights / community dev
y Health and safety
y Customer responsibility
y Supply chain (social)
Environmental
y Climate change and energy
y Water use
y Pollution and waste
y Biodiversity and land-use
y Supply chain and materials
No specific metrics in this Protocol
These will be included in separate thematic
standards on sustainability-related matters
(in addition to the current draft on climate),
as well as industry-specific standards.
Reporting
principles
y Accuracy
y Balance
y Clarity
y Comparability
y Completeness
y Material
y Stakeholder inclusive
y Sustainability context
y Timeliness
y Verifiability
y Comparability
y Faithful representation
y Relevance
y Timeliness
y Understandability
y Verifiability
44 JSE Limited Sustainability Disclosure Guidance 2021
ISSB: Climate-related Disclosures Prototype
EU Corporate Sustainability Reporting Directive
(CSRD)
Disclosure guidance on:
(a) governance
 (b) strategy
(c) risk management
 (d) metrics and targets
Disclosure guidance on (amongst others):
y Role of board and management
y Strategy
y Targets
y Principal adverse impacts connected to the
company and its value chain
Specific metrics on
y Greenhouse gas emissions
y Transition risks
y Physical risks
y Climate-related opportunities
y Capital deployment
y Internal carbon prices
y Remuneration
Specific metrics to be published in reporting
standards; first set by 31 October 2022, including:
Governance
y Role of supervisory bodies
y Ethics and culture
y Political engagements
y Control and risk mngt
Social
y Equal opportunities
y Working conditions
y Respect for human rights
Environmental
y Climate change
y Water & marine resources
y Resource use & circular economy
y Pollution
y Biodiversity and ecosystems
y Comparability
y Faithful representation
y Relevance
y Timeliness
y Understandability
y Verifiability
y Comparability
y Faithful representation
y Relevance
y Representative
y Understandable
y Verifiable
