Johannesburg Stock Exchange
www.jse.co.za let’s connect
In support of Supported by
Leading the way for
a better tomorrow
JSE Climate Change
Disclosure Guidance
Draft open for public comment from
9 December 2021 - 28 February 2022
List of boxes, tables and figures
Boxes
Tips on conducting a scenario analysis 19
IPCC, IEA and NGFS scenarios 21
Benchmarking climate transition readiness with TPI 27
Setting Science Based Targets 31
Tables
Table 1.1: TCFD recommendations and Supporting Recommended Disclosures 12
Table 5.1: Additional resources for TCFD implementation 38
Figures
Figure 2.1: Climate-related risks, opportunities, and financial impact 16
Figure 2.2: Double Materiality Perspective 18
Figure 3.1: Overview of GHG Protocol scopes and emissions across the value chain 30
Executive summary 3
A message from the JSE Group CEO 4
Introduction 6
Chapter 1: Climate disclosure – Setting the stage 8
1.1 Key trends 10
1.2 What is the TCFD? 13
1.3 How to get started 13
1.4 Differential reporting 13
1.5 The intended audience for this guidance 13
Chapter 2: Risks and opportunities 14
2.1 Climate opportunities 16
2.2 Climate risks 17
2.3 Climate governance 17
2.4 Materiality assessment 18
2.5 Scenario analysis 19
2.6 Just transition 22
Chapter 3: Disclosure content 26
3.1 Investor-useful information 26
3.2 Reporting on opportunities and use of taxonomies 26
3.3 Carbon emission reporting 26
3.4 Setting targets 28
Chapter 4: Disclosure presentation and validation 32
4.1 Frameworks for disclosure 34
4.2 Data verification and assurance 34
4.3 Location and timing of climate-related disclosure 35
Chapter 5: Education and resources 36
5.1 Resources for updating scientific knowledge 38
Annex 1: TCFD checklist 41
Annex 2: Alignment of recommended disclosures with other frameworks 47
Annex 3: Recent studies on potential aggregated financial impacts of climate change 47
Annex 4: Acknowledgements 52
Contents
JSE Limited Climate Disclosure Guidance 2021 1
2 JSE Limited Climate Disclosure Guidance 2021
Climate-related risks and the expected transition to a
low-carbon economy affect all economic sectors and
industries and therefore financial markets are
increasingly pricing these risks as well as looking to
identify and measure new investment opportunities.
Globally, investors are recognising this and are demanding
higher quality, consistent data to inform their investment
strategies and decisions. This requires a dramatic
improvement in climate-related disclosures globally.
Where companies are already advancing on this topic,
with unprecedented support for climate action including
setting science-based targets and net zero emissions
commitments, they require support to make sure that
this is being effectively communicated to investors. To
help issuers integrate and communicate climate-related
information in alignment with current best practices, the
following three stage process is proposed:
Step 1 – Disclosure diagnosis and context: The first
step to ensuring that climate-related issues are sufficiently
addressed by your organisation, is understanding the
relevance of climate change and taking stock of your
current disclosure practices. To help issuers understand
the key climate-related issues for their business, this
guidance provides a basic overview of the evolution of
climate-related disclosures and the current financial,
political and legal landscape (see Chapters 1 and 5).
In order to help issuers evaluate their current disclosure,
this guidance also provides a checklist (Annex 1) which
helps issuers determine whether or not they are providing
sufficient information to investors on this topic.
Step 2 – Integration of climate-related risks and
opportunities: The second step for organisations that
have recognised the need for action on climate, is to
integrate climate-related aspects into their risk
Executive summary
assessment and strategy development processes
see Chapter 2). Climate change poses both risks and
opportunities to all organisations. This integration should
be done from the top of the organisation and should
filter down through policies, processes and strategy.
Step 3 – Disclosure of climate-related practices and
data: The third step is communicating the organisation’s
understanding through its disclosure of climate-related
practices, strategy and objectives to investors and
stakeholders (see Chapters 3 and 4). The Financial
Stability Board (FSB) established the Task Force for
Climate-Related Financial Disclosures to develop
recommendations for more effective climate-related
disclosures. Through this Task Force, the FSB aimed to
identify disclosures that could promote more informed
investment, credit, and insurance underwriting decisions
and, in turn, enable stakeholders to better understand
the concentrations of carbon-related assets in the
financial sector and the financial system’s exposures
to climate-related risks. This includes a growing focus
on whether the climate targets a company is setting
are aligned with a climate trajectory towards net zero
emissions before 2050.
This three stage cyclical process can and should be
undertaken by any company, regardless of size or
sector. It is recognised that each company is at a
unique phase of its reporting practice evolution and this
guidance aims to help all companies, even those with
limited reporting experience or limited resources. It is
recommended that all issuers perform each of these
steps, however the depth and detail of each stage of
the process may vary.
By 1992 at the Rio Earth Summit, it was already established that “human
influence on the climate system is clear and growing, with impacts
observed across all continents and oceans”.1 Since then, the scientific
and economic understanding of the impacts and risks of climate change
has grown substantially.
1 IPCC, Synthesis Report. Contribution of Working Groups I, II and III to the Fifth Assessment Report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change,
2014.
JSE Limited Climate Disclosure Guidance 2021 3
A message from the
JSE Group CEO
The capital markets environment
has shifted considerably over this
period in response to changes
and developments in the trading
and regulatory sphere. Sustainable
development is rapidly becoming
a defining feature of the global
economy and financial markets
will reflect this.
There is a growing expectation of business to play a
role in Investor interest in environmental, social and
governance (ESG) issues continues to grow, placing
business front and centre in driving the shift towards
stakeholder capitalism. Within this, there is an exciting
opportunity for stock exchanges to play a leading role.
The JSE recognises the need to create an enabling
environment for better disclosure practices to thrive. As a
business, ESG principles are closely aligned with our
corporate objectives to grow shared prosperity.
The exchange has long been recognised for its pioneering
role in promoting strong governance and sustainability/
ESG disclosure globally, through such initiatives as its
progressive listings requirements incorporating the King
Codes. The 2004 SRI Index (the first such index owned by
an exchange and the first of its kind in emerging markets).
It is a signatory to the UN-backed Principles for
Responsible Investment, a member and past chair of
the Sustainability Working Group of the World Federation
of Exchanges, and is a founding member of the
Sustainable Stock Exchanges Initiative. More recently,
we took on the role of co-chair of the SSE Committee on
Climate Disclosure Guidance, as well as co-chair of the
Global Investors for Sustainable Development Alliance
(GISD), and member of the Net Zero Service Providers
Alliance (NZSPA).
Over the course of its 134-year
history, the JSE has evolved and
developed in tandem with the
market that it supports.
Dr. Leila Fourie
Group CEO
4 JSE Limited Climate Disclosure Guidance 2021
The SSE (2015) and WFE (2018) have both produced
“model” ESG Guidance for exchanges to adapt to their
context to help local issuers improve their disclosure.
While the JSE is considered to have held existing
requirements for sustainability/ESG disclosure through its
links to the King Codes on corporate governance, no
detailed guidance to assist listed companies on
sustainability/ESG reporting has previously been issued.
This document succeeds in laying out the wide range of
benefits to sustainability/ESG disclosure guidance.
We recognise the need for clear guidance that:
1. helps local companies to navigate the ESG
landscape;
2. reflects South Africa’s unique sustainability
challenges;
3. assists in driving improved ESG performance,
accountability, and business leadership; and
4. contributes to enhanced transparency and
consistency.
In response to the rapidly evolving landscape of
sustainability standards and frameworks, this guidance
provides JSE-listed issuers with guidelines specifically
tailored to the South African context, whilst being fully
cognisant of global best practice. It is intended that this
Disclosure Guidance will serve as an umbrella for
sub-topic guidance as needed, with the first such
guidance on Climate Disclosure, to be released at the
same time.
The JSE Sustainability Disclosure Guidance is aligned
with, and draws on, the most influential global initiatives
on sustainability/ESG and climate change disclosure
– including the GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards,
the Taskforce on Climate-related Financial Disclosures
(TCFD) recommendations, the IFRS Foundation’s ISSB
prototypes, and the Value Reporting Foundation’s
Integrated Reporting Framework – as well as an extensive
range of other frameworks and standards (Annex 1) and
the ESG guidance of various peer exchanges.
This Disclosure Guidance is not intended to replace any of
these global initiatives, but rather seeks to help companies
navigate the landscape of reporting standards without
being onerous, and to provide explicitly for the South
African context. This guidance document takes into
account the many hundreds of ESG metrics currently
available and highlights those metrics that are generally
well-established, universal, industry-agnostic and that we
believe to be material in the South African context.
It is our hope that this set of guidance documents will be
a valuable resource and tool to all our listed companies
regardless of size or sector and we look forward to
receiving your comments and feedback as we refine this
work in preparation for the final document to be published
in 2022.
I would like to thank our Chief Sustainability Officer,
Shameela Soobramoney, and Jonathon Hanks from
Incite, and his team, for their work in supporting this
guidance note. I would also like to thank the International
Finance Corporation (IFC) for their support of this project
through partial sponsorship as well as through technical
expert input via their global network.
I look forward to the consultation process and to receiving
your valuable inputs for this important endeavour.
Dr. Leila Fourie
Group CEO
3 International Financial Reporting Standards and the International Sustainability Standards Board
JSE Guidance and Requirements: Understanding the distinction
This paper is issued as a guidance tool that may be used by issuers on a voluntary basis to:
y assist local companies to navigate the global ESG landscape;
y provide for South Africa’s specific ESG challenges;
y improve the quality of ESG information available to enable more informed investment decisions;
y drive improved ESG performance, accountability, and business leadership.
The paper does not constitute disclosure or reporting obligations for issuers pursuant to the provisions of
the JSE Listings Requirements.
JSE Limited Climate Disclosure Guidance 2021 5
Introduction
The estimated financial impacts related to climate
change have led investors, policy makers and financial
service providers to request additional data from issuers
to effectively assess and price risks in the market.
South Africa’s National Climate Change Response
White Paper, 2011 recognised that the corporate sector
has a fundamental role to play in the country’s response
to climate change and that private sector funding would
play an important role in achieving national climate
change goals. Treasury has also recognised that improved
disclosure of environmental and social performance is
necessary for efficient capital allocation and the pricing
of risk and that strengthening the resilience of the
financial systems depends on integrating environmental
and social factors into risk management systems.4
As noted by the Sustainable Stock Exchange (SSE)
initiative, stock exchanges are in a unique position to
advance climate disclosure by providing guidance
to issuers and the wider markets. The Johannesburg
Stock Exchange (JSE) plays a leading role in the SSE
initiative, which brings together various UN agencies,
the UN Global Compact and the UNEP Finance Initiative
and the Principles of Responsible Investment (PRI).
In June 2021, the SSE released a Model Guidance on
Climate Disclosure to support stock exchanges to guide
issuers on climate-related disclosures.
While climate change is often seen as a defining obstacle among
sustainability issues, the consequences of it can amplify other sustainability
issues, such as inequality, poverty and food availability, water and resource
scarcity. Not addressing it can carry a far greater cost than dealing with
it today.
This Guidance, which is based on the core principles set
out in the SSE Model Guidance, consists of five chapters:
y Chapter 1: Climate Disclosure – setting the stage
y Chapter 2: Risks and opportunities
y Chapter 3: Disclosure content
y Chapter 4: Disclosure presentation and validation
y Chapter 5: Education and resources
The Guidance builds on the Task Force for ClimateRelated Financial Disclosures (TCFD), which released
its recommendations in 2017, enhancing them with
additional guidance in 2021. While numerous organisations
are already utilizing the TCFD recommendations, the
JSE believes that this Climate Disclosure Guidance is
relevant in addition to the TCFD. In particular, the
Guidance provides local context relating to recent policy
and regulatory developments such as those contained
in the King IV Guidance Paper on Responsibilities of
Governing Bodies in Responding to Climate Change. As
discussed below, the King IV Guidance Paper includes
important differences to the TCFD recommendations
that are important to consider particularly in light of the
increasing urgent need for climate action.
The Guidance complements the JSE’s Sustainability
Disclosure Guidance, which provides an overarching
approach to disclosure on environmental, social and
governance issues, including climate change.
4 National Treasury, Financing a Sustainable Economy: Technical Paper, 2021.
6 JSE Limited Climate Disclosure Guidance 2021
01
02
03
04
05
Climate Disclosure
– Setting the stage
The first step to ensuring that
climate-related issues are sufficiently
addressed by your organisation is
recognising the changing landscape
and identifying your organisation’s
current progress.
Risks and
opportunities
The second step for organisations
thathave recognised the need for
action on climate is to integrate
climate-related risks and opportunities
into their governance, strategy and risk
management processes.
Disclosure
content
The third step for organisations that
have recognised the need for action
on climate is to communicate their
action and intentions through
climate-related disclosures.
Disclosure presentation
and validation
Issuers have several frameworks or
formats to present the information
recommended for disclosure by
the TCFD.
Education
and resources
This guidance acts as a starting
point for all issuers to evaluate
and update their current disclosure
practices to ensure their resilience
to climate-related issues.
JSE Limited Climate Disclosure Guidance 2021 7
Climate Disclosure –
Setting the stage
01
The first step to ensuring that climaterelated issues are sufficiently addressed
by your organisation is recognising the
changing landscape and identifying your
organisation’s current progress.
8 JSE Limited Climate Disclosure Guidance
Climate change science is
constantly growing and issuers
are encouraged to continually
update their knowledge on this
topic. This chapter provides an
overview of key trends, and
chapter 5 provides further
resources to help stay up-to-date
on this topic.
JSE Limited Climate Disclosure Guidance 9
1.1 Key trends
There are three key trends that indicate a need for
accelerated action on climate change, namely a rapid
change in investment trends, new policy and regulation
integrating climate-related disclosures, and increased
legal and reputational risks related to climate.
Changing investment trends
Studies (see Annex 3) suggest that climate-related
financial risks are not just limited to fossil fuel or high
carbon sectors but exist across industries and asset
classes. As a result, both investors and issuers are
adapting an increasingly long-term outlook for more
efficient and risk-adjusted allocation of capital and need
to set out their strategies in response to this economic
transition.
Investors and asset managers are increasingly shifting
their investments towards companies that are better
positioned on climate change and often assume poor
corporate disclosure will mean a company is poorly
prepared for the climate transition. As a result,
investments are being diverted away from those
companies seen to have poor disclosure on their
climate-related strategies and risk-management and
towards those seen as leaders. There is also a high
level of coordination between investors in both
measuring companies’ climate performance and
interlinked engagement with companies on climate
action. These trends are taking place in both active and
passive (index) funds.
Impending changes to policy and
regulation
A 2019 whitepaper7 written by the PRI highlighted the
dramatic increase in attention paid by financial policy
makers to sustainability issues in recent years. The
PRI’s Responsible Investment Regulation Map found
over 730 hard and soft law policy revisions across
approximately 500 policy instruments within the world’s
50 largest economies to support, encourage or require
investors to consider long-term value drivers, including
ESG factors. This trend has only accelerated, with the
2021 TCFD status report indicating a number of
governments beginning to embed the recommendations
in policy and guidance and moving toward requiring
TCFD disclosures through legislation and regulation.
More recently, in November 2021, the IFRS Foundation
Trustees’ Technical Readiness Working Group (TRWG),
which was formed to undertake preparatory work for
the formation of a new International Sustainability
Standards Board (ISSB), published a Climate-related
Disclosures Prototype.8 The ISSB is expected to consult
publicly on a climate-related financial disclosure
standard when it starts its work, but this Guidance
draws on the Prototype in order to align with emerging
standards as far as possible.
In South Africa, changes to policy and regulation that
address sustainability issues in the financial sector
include:
y The 2011 amendment to Regulation 28 of the
Pension Fund Act, 1956 that requires “appropriate
consideration to any factor which may materially
affect the sustainable long-term performance of a
fund’s assets, including factors of an environmental,
social and governance character.” 9
y The Financial Sector Conduct Authority’s (FSCA)
Guidance Notice 1 of 2019 on the Sustainability of
Investments and Assets in the Context of a
Retirement Fund’s Investment Policy Statement,
which provide guidance on the FSCA’s expectations
for compliance with Regulation 28, and disclosure
and reporting requirements for retirement funds on
sustainability factors. 10
Markets need to prepare themselves for changes to
policy and regulation globally to ensure stability and
resiliency of financial markets. Issuers and investors
can be prepared for regulatory changes aligned with
ambitious climate-related policy goals and in doing so
will gain competitive advantage and strategic
opportunities.
Legal and reputational risks
Both issuers and investors are increasingly cognizant of
the legal and reputational risks related to the failure to
act on climate change. As of January 2020, the total
number of climate change legal cases filed globally
reached approximately 1,444 for the year, continuing an
upward trend of such cases.11 The most recent climate
change litigation update by Norton Rose Fulbright
notes “the growing demand from consumers for
environmentally sustainable goods and services is
prompting ever increasing scrutiny from consumer
advocates and regulators into misleading and
fraudulent corporate climate claims or commitments.”
While litigation can indeed be a reputational risk as well,
reputational risks associated with climate change are
also on the rise. In the climate change context,
McKinsey & Company define reputation risk as “the
7 PRI, Taking stock: Sustainable finance policy engagement and policy influence, 2019.
8 IFRS Technical Readiness Working Group, Climate-related Disclosures Prototype, 2021.
9 National Treasury, Amendment of Regulation 28 of the Pension Funds Act, 2011.
10 FSCA, Guidance Notice 1 of 2019 on the Sustainability of Investments and Assets in the Context of a Retirement Fund’s Investment Policy Statement, 2019.
11 Norton Rose Fulbright, Climate change litigation update, 2020.
10 JSE Limited Climate Disclosure Guidance 2021
probability of profitability loss following a business’s
activities or positions that the public considers harmful.”
A damaged reputation can for example, impact sales,
through consumer boycotts or local community
protests. Knock on effects include damage to its
investor relationships, and adjusting opinions of
potential future employees.
Further, not only are customers and civil society
pushing for climate action from companies, but so are
shareholders. Shareholder resolutions are increasingly
addressing climate-related topics and putting pressure
on issuers to make significant changes to business
strategies and operations.
Recent developments in South Africa
As in other jurisdictions, the pace and scale of South
Africa’s response to climate change has accelerated in
recent years. Significant developments include:
y The publication of National Treasury’s Financing a
Sustainable Economy: Technical Paper in October
2021. The Paper identifies “the need to develop or
adopt additional methodologies…to include
specifically the identification, management and
disclosure of climate-related risks” as one of four
“immediate practical priorities and focus areas for the
South African financial sector”.12
12 National Treasury, Financing a Sustainable Economy: Technical Paper, 2021.
JSE Limited Climate Disclosure Guidance 2021 11
y The establishment of the Presidential Climate
Commission in 2020 to provide independent expert
advice on the country’s climate change response and
facilitate a common vision for a net-zero and climate
resilient economy and society by 2050.
y The July 2021 release of the King IV Guidance Paper
on Responsibilities of Governing Bodies in Responding
to Climate Change to support boards and other
governing bodies in their response to climate change.13
y The introduction of the National Climate Change Bill
to parliament in October 2021. The Bill aims to provide
a coordinated and integrated response to climate
change and its impacts by, among other things,
setting a national greenhouse gas (GHG) trajectory
and setting carbon budgets for high emitters.
y The introduction of the carbon tax, which came into
effect on 1 June 2019 after President Cyril Ramaphosa
signed the Carbon Tax Act into law. The tax had an
introductory base rate of R120 per ton of CO2
equivalent before various allowances were taken into
consideration.
y The submission of the updated Nationally Determined
Contribution (NDC) under the Paris Agreement in
September 2021 that sets a new target range of
398-510 Mt CO2 equivalent for 2025 and 350–420 Mt
CO2 equivalent for 2030. This is compared to the
target range of 398–614 Mt CO2 equivalent for 2025
and 2030. Whereas the initial NDC expected
emissions to decline from 2035, the updated NDC
expects emissions to decline from 2025.
y The release of a draft South African Green Finance
Taxonomy in June 2021, which provides a catalogue
of assets, projects and sectors that can be defined as
“green” in accordance with international best practice
and national priorities.
y The development of a working draft of a document
outlining Principles and Guidance for Minimum
Disclosure of Climate Related Risks and Opportunities,
which is expected to be released shortly. It aims to
guide reporters and create a platform for building a
common understanding between regulators and
industry on disclosure.14
Table 1.1 TCFD recommendations and Supporting Recommended Disclosures
 Governance Strategy Risk Management Metrics and Targets
Disclose the organisation’s
governance around climaterelated risks and opportunities.
Disclose the actual and
potential impacts of climaterelated risks and opportunities
on the organisation’s
businesses, strategy, and
financial planning where such
information is material
Disclose how the organisation
identifies, assesses, and
manages climate-related risks.
Disclose the metrics and
targets used to assess and
manage relevant climaterelated risks and opportunities
where such information is
material.
Recommended Disclosures Recommended Disclosures Recommended Disclosures Recommended Disclosures
a. Describe the board’s
oversight of climate-related
risks and opportunities.
b. Describe management’s role
in assessing and managing
climate-related risks and
opportunities.
a. Describe the climate-related
risks and opportunities the
organisation has identified
over the short, medium, and
long term.
b. Describe the impact of
climate-related risks and
opportunities on the
organisation’s businesses,
strategy, and financial
planning.
c. Describe the resilience of the
organisation’s strategy,
taking into consideration
different climate-related
scenarios, including a 2°C or
lower scenario.
a. Describe the organisation’s
processes for identifying and
assessing climate-related
risks.
b. Describe the organisation’s
processes for managing
climate-related risks.
c. Describe how processes for
identifying, assessing, and
managing climate-related
risks are integrated into the
organisation’s overall
risk management.
a. Disclose the metrics used by
the organisation to assess
climate-related risks and
opportunities in line with its
strategy and risk
management process.
b. Disclose Scope 1, Scope 2,
and, if appropriate, Scope 3
greenhouse gas (GHG)
emissions, and the related
risks.
c. Describe the targets used by
the organisation to manage
climate-related risks and
opportunities and
performance against targets.
Source: Page 15 of the TCFD recommendations, 2021
13 Institute of Directors, King IV Guidance Paper: Responsibilities of Governing Bodies in Responding to Climate Change, 2021
14 Climate Risk Forum, Draft Principles and Guidance for Minimum Disclosure of Climate Related Risks and Opportunities, 2021
12 JSE Limited Climate Disclosure Guidance 2021
1.2 What is the TCFD?
The Financial Stability Board (FSB) established the Task
Force for Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD)
in 2015 to develop recommendations for more effective
climate-related disclosures to support informed capital
allocation.
The TCFD’s recommendations, which were released in
2017 and enhanced in 2021, are structured around four
thematic areas (Table 1.1) that represent core elements
of how organisations operate: governance, strategy,
risk management, and metrics and targets. The four
thematic areas are intended to interlink and inform each
other, and therefore issuers will also find an overlapping
of information between these four categories. The
TCFD recommendations are also incorporated into
IFRS’ draft Climate-related Disclosures Prototype.
Since the publication of these milestone recommendations,
the TCFD has issued four status reports, most recently
in October 2021, describing the alignment of companies’
reporting with the TCFD recommendations. The number
of organisations expressing support for the TCFD has
grown significantly, spanning across 89 countries.
Financial institutions responsible for assets of more than
US$194 trillion, including the largest asset managers
and asset owners in the world, support the TCFD.
On the corporate side, support for TCFD has grown
to include companies representing more than
US$25 trillion in market capitalization. There were
21 South African TCFD supporters as of October 2021,
half of which declared their support in 2021 suggesting
a growing trend. Local supporters include several of
the largest asset managers and several of the largest
listed companies.
1.3 How to get started
To get started in evaluating the climate-resiliency of
your organisation, issuers may wish to use the TCFD
Checklist found in Annex 1, which is based on the
recommended disclosures of the TCFD. Issuers can use
this checklist to self-diagnose their published information
and determine whether an investor could or could not
answer the questions listed in the checklist. Where
issuers establish that sufficient information is provided
in their current disclosures to answer a question on the
checklist, they may wish to indicate where that information
can be found, using the checklist as a map for easy
identification of TCFD-recommended information. If it is
determined that report users cannot answer a question
on the checklist using publicly available information,
issuers should consider including additional information
in their public disclosures. This guide will help issuers
determine what information will help investors and other
users of reports answer the questions on the TCFD
Checklist, help identify where issuers may wish to
disclose this information, and how they may wish
to present it.
1.4 Differential reporting
Climate risk is relevant for companies of all sizes and
sectors but the depth and detail of reporting that
investors expect will not be the same for all companies.
There is a growing expectation from investors that
larger companies and especially those in industries that
are highly exposed to the risks of climate change (both
physical and/or transition) such as extractives, energy,
agriculture, steel, cement, tourism and travel will provide
more detailed disclosures. In these cases the TCFD
Checklist should be used to ensure that all disclosure
recommendations are met. However, smaller companies
in less vulnerable industries and/or those with fewer
resources available for reporting procedures, may wish
to use the results of the checklist exercise to map a
plan for future disclosures. Progress can be disclosed
so that investors are aware of the issuer’s plans.
Issuers that chose to map a plan towards full disclosure
may wish to use an existing staged process (see Box
3.1: Benchmarking climate transition readiness with the
Transition Pathway Initiative (TPI)). It is important to
note, however, that a staged approach should only be
considered when limited resources do not permit an
organisation to integrate all the recommendations of
the TCFD from the start. Issuers in climate-vulnerable
industries should consider either immediate alignment
or an accelerated progression (within 1–2 years).
1.5 The intended
audience for this guidance
The primary objective of this guidance is to support
JSE-listed companies in considering how they can
integrate the TCFD recommendations into their disclosure
processes in conjunction with the King IV Guidance
Paper on Responsibilities of Governing Bodies in
Responding to Climate Change.15 The starting point
for this guidance is that all companies regardless of
sector need to consider and disclose information on
how the impact of climate change and the economic
transition to net zero will impact their business and
how their business will impact on the wider
environment and society.
In accordance with the King IV Report on Corporate
Governance for South Africa, 2016, a stakeholderinclusive approach is encouraged where the governing
body “balances the needs, interests and expectations of
material stakeholders in the best interests of the
organisation over time”.16
15 Institute of Directors, King IV Guidance Paper: Responsibilities of Governing Bodies in Responding to Climate Change, 2021
16 Institute of Directors, King IV Report on Corporate Governance for South Africa, 2016, p41
JSE Limited Climate Disclosure Guidance 2021 13
Risks and
opportunities
02
The second step for organisations that
have recognised the need for action on
climate is to integrate climate-related
risks and opportunities into their
governance, strategy and risk
management processes.
14 JSE Limited Climate Disclosure Guidance
In order to do this, it is important
that the board and senior-level
management recognise the climaterelated risks and opportunities that
are relevant to their organisation,
their industry, their supply chain and
their geographic location.
To help organisations with this task, this
chapter identifies key climate-related risks and
opportunities, as well as providing guidance on
practices used to evaluate the risk and
opportunities most relevant to an organisation.
While many organisations will already be
considering various opportunities and risks
associated with climate change, the TCFD
recommendations offer a framework for these
risks and opportunities that enables global
consistency. The Task Force’s
recommendations serve to encourage
organisations to evaluate and disclose, as part
of their annual financial filing preparation and
reporting processes, the climate-related risks
and opportunities that are most pertinent to
their business activities. The risks and
opportunities recommended for consideration
by the TCFD are those which have a financial
impact and should therefore also be reflected
in the organisation’s financial statements
(Figure 2.1).
JSE Limited Climate Disclosure Guidance 15
The TCFD approach of addressing risks and opportunities
is closely aligned to that set out in the King IV Guidance
Paper on Responsibilities of Governing Bodies in
Responding to Climate Change, which states that “climate
risk governance should encompass both the potential
positive and negative effects of the same risks on the
achievement of organisational objectives.”17 However,
as explored further in 2.4 Materiality assessment below,
the King IV Guidance Paper also recommends that
organisations consider and report on their impact on
the wider environment and society, not just those that
have a financial impact on the organisation.
2.1 Climate opportunities
Efforts to mitigate and adapt to climate change can
and are producing substantial opportunities for
organisations and their investors. In fact, the financial
impact of climate opportunities may outweigh climate
risks. In a 2019 study by CDP18, it was found that 225
of the world’s 500 largest companies reported climaterelated opportunities representing potential financial
impacts of over US$2.1 trillion - more than twice the
financial impact estimation from climate risks
(US$970 billion). Additionally, the report found that
more than half of all reporting companies in the study
identified potential opportunities that could have a
substantive or strategic impact on their business.
Climate-related opportunities may come through the
implementation of new resource efficiency and cost
savings programs, the adoption of low-emission energy
sources, the development of new products and
services, access to new markets, and building resilience
along the supply chain. TCFD identified several areas of
opportunity (see Figure 2.1 for an overview) that
organisations should assess and evaluate.
In the same way that organisations identify potential
negative impacts associated with climate risks, the
financial impact of new climate opportunities should be
identified and reflected in disclosures. Companies
should disclose the governance structures and
strategies developed to identify and assess climaterelated opportunities such as cost savings strategies or
product development to meet new market demands.
These opportunities should also be measured for
financial impact and appear in disclosures of metrics
and targets.
2.1.1 Financing opportunities
Increasingly, the financial sector is creating new
opportunities when climate-related data is made
available. The growth of the green bonds market is an
example of these growing financing opportunities in
“green” that issuers can take advantage of. The green
Figure 2.1 - Climate-related risks, opportunities, and financial impact
Policy and Legal Resource Efficiency
Transition Risks Opportunities
Physical Risks
Technology Energy Source
Market
Strategic Planning
Risk Management
Financial Impact (R)
Cash Flow
Statement
Products/Services
Acute
Revenues Assets and Liabilities
Reputation Resilience
Chronic
Expenditures Capital and Financing
Risks Opportunities
Income
Statement
Balance
Sheet
Source: Page 9 of the TCFD recommendations, 2021
17 Institute of Directors, King IV Guidance Paper: Responsibilities of Governing Bodies in Responding to Climate Change, 2021.
18 CBI, Record $269.5bn green issuance for 2020: Late surge sees pandemic year pip 2019 total by $3bn, 2021.
16 JSE Limited Climate Disclosure Guidance 2021
bond market continues to reach new records quarter
after quarter. For example, in 2020 the Climate Bonds
Initiative noted 60% average annual growth in green
bond issuance since 201519 with a cumulative
US$1 trillion milestone20 reached in December 2020
and a doubling of issuance in the first half of 2021
compared to the same period of 2020.21 Transition
finance, which supports high emitting companies shift
towards a climate-neutral or climate-positive position, is
another emerging trend.
These shifting dynamics are also evident in global stock
markets and therefore important for issuers to provide
relevant disclosure on. Non-financial sector organisations
should evaluate what new opportunities for financing
related to climate-alignment exist (such as green
bonds). Financial sector organisations can address this
opportunity from a product-opportunity perspective.
There remains a significant financing gap in South
Africa. An International Finance Corporation (IFC) study
estimated that R8.9 trillion in investment would be
needed between 2015 and 2030 to fund South Africa’s
commitments under the Paris Agreement. This
translates to around R600 billion each year, whereas a
2021 report by the Climate Policy Initiative, Bertha
Centre & GreenCape tracked climate finance of only
R62 billion in 2017 and 2018.22
2.2 Climate risks
The Task Force in its work evaluating risks related to
climate found two key categories of risk that report
preparers should be considering:
1. Risks related to the transition to a lower-carbon
economy; and
2. Risks related to the physical impacts of climate
change.
Within a scenario of climate transition, companies may
face risks relating to policy and legal changes, new or
obsolete technologies, changing market behaviours and
reputational risks. These risks have been found to
impact a company financially through both its income
statement, revenues and expenditures, its balance
sheet and through its assets, liabilities, capital and
financing. Examples of these risks were identified by
the Task Force (see Figure 2.1 for an overview) and
may be used to initiate a risk-assessment in order to
identify potential climate-related risks threatening your
company. A materiality analysis (see section 2.4 of this
chapter) can and should be conducted to illustrate how
materiality is determined and what risks are determined
to financially impact an organisation.
While climate change is a global challenge, it also has
unique local implications. Whether an issuer is
operating in one or many countries, they should
consider both global and domestic risks confronting
their operations. Within the markets where we operate,
there are also specific risks and opportunities that
companies should consider when conducting initial risk
and opportunity analysis.
2.3 Climate governance
A key aspect of ensuring that climate-related
risks and opportunities are sufficiently
integrated into an issuer’s internal processes is through
its governance mechanisms. Users of climate-related
financial disclosures are interested in understanding
the role an organisation’s board plays in overseeing
climate-related issues as well as management’s role in
assessing and managing those issues. Such information
supports evaluations of whether climate-related issues
receive appropriate board and management attention.
While good governance should intrinsically include
climate governance, since climate data can be both
new and complex, boards may require additional
mechanisms to grapple with the scientific, macroeconomic and political uncertainty of climate change.
In addition to the other guidance and requirements
provided by the JSE on corporate governance
requirements and best practices, including the JSE’s
Sustainability Disclosure Guidance, issuers should
consider to what extent their current corporate
governance accounts for and takes into consideration
climate-related risks and opportunities. The Task Force
considers governance, as well as risk management,
to be essential information required by investors to
assess an organisation’s financial and operating results.
As such, the recommended disclosures pertaining to
risk management and governance are recommended
to be disclosed in the annual financial filings of all
listed companies.
The King IV Report on Corporate Governance for South
Africa 2016 recommends that organisations should
take responsibility for the environmental impacts of
their activities and acknowledges climate change as
among the challenges testing the leadership of
organisations. The King IV Guidance Paper on
Responsibilities of Governing Bodies in Responding to
Climate Change highlights how the relevant King IV
principles can be applied in the context of responding to
climate change.
19 CBI, Record $269.5bn green issuance for 2020: Late surge sees pandemic year pip 2019 total by $3bn, 2021.
20 CBI, $1Trillion Mark Reached in Global Cumulative Green Issuance: Climate Bonds Data Intelligence Reports: Latest Figures, 2020.
21 CBI, Sustainable Debt Market: Summary H1 2021, 2021.
22 Climate Policy Initiative, Bertha Centre & Green Cape. South African Climate Finance Landscape 2020, 2021
JSE Limited Climate Disclosure Guidance 2021 17
The main principles in the King IV Guidance Paper are
summarised as follows:23
y “Organisations are exposed to risks arising from climate
change, particularly physical risk and transition risk.
How the organisation experiences these risks depends
on firstly, how these risks materialise and secondly,
what actions are taken to mitigate them. Physical risk
arises from the impacts of climate change. The
response from Governing Bodies will mitigate or
potentially lessen the risks, but the risks arise regardless.
Transition risk arises outside the organisation.
y Governing Bodies have a critical role to play in
responding to climate change which is an imperative
and no longer optional.
y Governing Bodies must ensure that business strategy
and decision-making include a broader, integrated
consideration of social, economic, and environmental
(including climate change) performance and impacts.
This incorporates an assessment of externalities (see
below), as well as determining risks and opportunities
for both the short and long term.
y Insofar as environmental and climate change reporting
and performance is concerned, Governing Bodies
should consider the principle of ‘externalities’. In simple
terms, externalities refer to societal costs not included
in the cost of production resulting in costs that do not
reflect the true impact on society or the environment.
y While accountability remains with the Governing Body,
responsibility for the management and monitoring of
risk and impact must be delegated to management
with defined indicators and targets to measure and
assess performance.
y Governing Bodies should make every effort to mitigate
their organisations’ contribution to climate change
(reduce the organisation’s impact on the drivers of
climate change).
y The Governing Body should ensure that the
organisation is transparent about its response to
climate change and disclose quantitative and
qualitative information which could affect a user’s
decisions, irrespective of whether a common
reporting framework exists or not.”
2.4 Materiality assessment
The Task Force recommendations are based
on the belief that climate-related issues are or
 could be material for many organisations, and its
recommendations should be useful to organisations in
complying more effectively with existing disclosure
obligations. It also notes, however, that climate-related
risk is a non-diversifiable risk that affects nearly all
industries, and therefore many investors believe it
requires special attention.
The TCFD recommendations primarily relate to
information deemed “financially material”. The JSE
Climate Disclosure Guidance supports the
recommendation of the King IV Guidance Paper on
Responsibilities of Governing Bodies in Responding to
Climate Change that governing bodies recognise the
concept of double materiality, which considers both the
impact on enterprise value and the organisation’s
impact on wider environment and society (see Figure
2.2). This is also in alignment with the JSE’s
Sustainability Guidance document.
It is noted that over time materiality will change and
that time horizons impact whether or not information is
relevant to a decision. The Task Force encourages
organisations where climate-related issues could be
material in the future to begin disclosing climate-related
Figure 2.2 – Double Materiality Perspective
OPPORTUNITY for company, climate and society if
company contributes to climate mitigation/adaption
RISK of negative impact on climate
RISK of negative impact on company:
acute and chronical physical risks
RISK of negative
impact on company:
transition risk
Policy
Legal
Technology
Market
Reputation
SOCIETY
RESPONSE
TCFD and JSE
perspective:
risks and
impacts ON
the company COMPANY
JSE perspective:
company impacts
on climate
CLIMATE
Source: Adapted from EU Guidelines on reporting climate-related information
23 Institute of Directors, King IV Guidance Paper: Responsibilities of Governing Bodies in Responding to Climate Change, 2021.
18 JSE Limited Climate Disclosure Guidance 2021
financial information outside financial filings to
facilitate the incorporation of such information into
financial filings once climate-related issues are
determined to be material. A materiality matrix can
be used to illustrate how a company has considered
climate-related matters.
Companies who do not find climate-related risks
or opportunities material to their organisation are
encouraged to report the means by which they came
to this conclusion, and the time horizon used.
2.5 Scenario analysis
The TCFD recommends conducting a
scenario analysis (see box 1.1) to help identify and
effectively assess the potential implications of a
range of plausible future conditions due to the
uncertainty of climate-related changes. Scenarios
are hypothetical constructs that consider how the
future might look if certain trends continue or
certain conditions are met. Scenario analysis is not
an exercise in forecasts, predictions or sensitivity
analyses, but rather in evaluating resilience to
different possible future scenarios. For example,
while governments have agreed upon the target
of limiting global average temperature rise to well
below 2ºC, and preferably to 1.5 ºC, above
pre-industrial levels, corporations should consider
the impact on their business in the scenario that
this target is met, or not. This analysis can be
qualitative, relying on descriptive, written narratives,
or quantitative, relying on numerical data and
models, or a combination of both.
While climate change can impact organisations
both today and in the future, the implications often
vary over time in severity and conditions. A scenario
analysis is a method for developing strategic plans
that are more flexible or robust and has become
a useful tool for businesses to understand the
strategic implications of climate-related risks and
opportunities. While this is an important step to the
TCFD, it is also often the stage for which companies
have the least experience. It is important to note,
that while the initial process of developing a scenario
analysis may be challenging, it pays dividends in the
years ahead. After the first analysis, only adjustments
will be needed on a yearly basis; revisiting the
whole process is less often required.
TIPS ON CONDUCTING
A SCENARIO ANALYSIS
The Centre for Climate and Energy Solutions
(C2ES) launched a report in 2018 that identifies
best practices companies are employing when they
conduct a TCFD recommended scenario analysis.
They include:
y Make use of publicly available scenarios and
leverage them by customizing corporate
scenario exercises around company-specific
risks and opportunities. Stakeholders are
familiar with the parameters and assumptions in
publicly available scenarios, but companies need
to explain how the scenarios were modified and
used to stress test their particular portfolio and
circumstances.
y Focus scenario exercises and disclosures on a
few key variables associated with long-term
climate-related risks and opportunities that
could have a material impact on the business.
Stakeholders want to understand how companies
manage the uncertainty and long-term risks of
climate change. A scenario analysis is not
intended to be a predictive exercise, nor an
exhaustive one. Rather, it provides an opportunity
to evaluate potential strategies compatible under
a range of outcomes to make companies more
financially resilient.
y Use a range of scenarios when conducting a
scenario-based risk analysis, including those
that do not meet 2ºC. Exploring a broad range of
futures and testing those against a company’s
strategy will help illustrate financial resilience
under a variety of climate-related outcomes.
Beyond assessing the risks and opportunities
related to an energy transition, companies
should also consider the physical impacts of
climate change and analyse them along the
entire value chain.
y Scenario exercises should be reviewed on a
regular basis as part of a strategic management
process. Outcomes from scenario exercises are
unlikely to change significantly from year to year
if assumptions and inputs remain stable, but
companies should regularly monitor signposts
that might indicate a potential need to change
strategy or positioning on a regular basis.
Source: Center for Climate and Energy Solutions (C2ES) report
titled “Using Scenarios to Assess and Report Climate-Related
Financial Risk” (2018)
JSE Limited Climate Disclosure Guidance 2021 19
Organisations have numerous resources available to
them, including the TCFD’s Guidance on Scenario Analysis
for Non-Financial Companies (2020), the TCFD’s
Knowledge Hub, among others (see section 5.1 of
Chapter 5). For example, the TCFD’s guidance on
scenario analysis provides a detailed step-by-step
guide on how to conduct a scenario analysis and
provides a detailed analysis on available scenarios and
models. The same guidance also provides a list of key
messages that organisations should understand about
scenario analysis. If issuers have not worked on a
scenario analysis before, they may wish to use the
many resources available through the TCFD.
To conduct a scenario analysis, companies may wish
to follow the following (simplified) three stage process:
1. Identify appropriate scenarios – Each organisation
has the choice of using “out-of-the-box” scenarios or
developing their own. In either case, it should choose
the scenarios that align with the organisation’s
underlying assumptions and the key risks and
opportunities of its sector or industry. The scenarios
used should be clearly explained. It is also important
that organisations recognise the importance of
consistent and comparable disclosures and therefore
existing scenarios will help ensure consistency with
scientific data underpinning the exercise. Scenarios
aim to evaluate a company’s resilience to what
‘may’ happen, therefore, more than one scenario
will help identify resilience in the various possible
futures.
2. Set the boundaries of your scenario analysis
– Before analysing the impact of climate-change in
the scenarios chosen, organisations may wish to
set boundaries to their analysis. This simple process
determines how far your analysis will extend. While
smaller organisations may feel that an analysis of
the direct operations sufficiently covers the
climate-related risks and opportunities within each
scenario, given that many significant impacts and
vulnerabilities are found in the supply chain, it will
be beneficial for most larger companies and all
financial-sector companies to expand their analysis
beyond their headquarters. Boundaries may be set
for financial institutions to include their portfolio,
and all large organisations should consider
including their supply chain and customers.
3. Analyse both transitional and physical risks within
the scenarios chosen – Once the scenarios are
chosen and boundaries are set, the organisation
undergoes an exercise of evaluating its physical and
transitional risks. This exercise can also be used to
identify the opportunities that may appear within
the scenario. Mapping the severity and likelihood of
the risks enables the organisation to develop a
strategic plan for future scenarios.
2.5.1 Scenario selection
When conducting a scenario analysis for the first time,
organisations have a plethora of resources to help
develop in-house scenarios or to make use of publicly
available scenarios. Publicly available scenarios may be
used as they are, be adapted, or used to help create an
in-house scenario, or combined scenarios. However, it
is important to remember that investors require
consistent and comparable disclosure.
There are a number of publicly available scenarios
which organisations can use to conduct a scenario
analysis or to act as guidance for developing in-house
scenarios, such as the Intergovernmental Panel on
Climate Change (IPCC), the International Energy Agency
(IEA) and the Network for Greening Financial System
(NGFS) scenarios (see box 2.1). While the aforementioned
scenarios are the most prominent and widely used
scenarios in the public domain, other organisations,
such as the International Renewable Energy Agency,
and the Deep Decarbonization Pathways Project (DDPP)
among others, have published their own scenarios,
which provide a different narrative and outlook to those
listed above. Some of these groups have taken a specific
focus, such as using 100% renewable energy, or built a
regional specific model that takes a deeper look into the
energy mix for specific countries (such as the DDPP).
Organisations should choose scenarios that best align
with their own underlying assumptions in managing
climate risks and opportunities and should also align
with the country’s Nationally Determined Contributions
(NDCs) under the Paris Agreement. NDCs are refreshed
every five years in accordance with the Paris Agreement.
The sum of all countries’ NDCs, however, fail to achieve
a 2°C temperature goal, so companies using NDCs as
another basis of scenarios should understand both
NDC pathways and limitations.
South Africa formally ratified the Paris Agreement in
November 2016. Its NDC was updated in September
2021 with a new target range of 398–510 Mt CO2
equivalent for 2025 and 350-420 Mt CO2 equivalent for
2030. This is compared to the target range of 398–
614 Mt CO2 equivalent for 2025 and 2030. Whereas the
initial NDC expected emissions to decline from 2035,
the updated NDC expects emissions to decline from
2025. Climate Action Tracker rated South Africa’s initial
NDC as “insufficient”, which means that warming would
reach over 2°C and up to 3°C if all countries were to
follow this approach. The Climate Action Tracker
assessment of the updated NDC is still pending, but in
July 2021, Climate Action Tracker noted that the
Presidential Climate Commission’s recommendation,
which was subsequently adopted in the updated NDC,
was close to 1.5°C compatible.
24 Climate Action Tracker, South Africa’s Presidential climate commission recommends stronger mitigation target range for updated NDC: close to 1.5°C
compatible, 2021.
20 JSE Limited Climate Disclosure Guidance 2021
IPCC, IEA AND NGFS SCENARIOS
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC)
The IPCC has developed a new basis for the construction of comparable scenarios across research and
modelling groups — Representative Concentration Pathways (RCPs) and Shared Socioeconomic Pathways
(SSPs). RCPs are “emissions scenarios” that include time series of emissions and concentrations of the
full suite of greenhouse gases, aerosols, and chemically active gases, as well as land use/land cover.
RCPs are used to develop climate projections by informing physical climate system models; these models,
in turn, project how the physical climate may change under different levels of radiative forcing driven by
greenhouse gas concentrations. SSPs were developed to complement the RCPs with varying
socioeconomic challenges to adaptation and mitigation. The combination of SSP-based “socioeconomic
scenarios” and RCP-based climate projections provides an integrative framework for climate impact and
policy analysis. The following table outlines the RCPs:
Mean Temperature and Full Range Associated with Each RCP
Scenario
Atmospheric carbon
dioxide concentrations
in 2100
Temperature increase
to 2081–2100 relative to a
1850–1900 baseline
Global mean sea level rise
for 2081–2100 relative to a
1986–2005 baseline
Average Likely range Average Likely range
RCP2.6 421ppm 1.6°C 0.9–2.3°C 0.40m 0.26–0.55m
RCP4.5 538ppm 2.4°C 1.7–3.2°C 0.47m 0.32–0.63m
RCP6.0 670ppm 2.8°C 2.0–3.7°C 0.48m 0.33–0.63m
RCP8.5 936ppm 4.3°C 3.2–5.4°C 0.63m 0.45–0.82m
The SSPs describe five alternative socioeconomic futures over the course of the 21st century assuming
no explicit policies to mitigate or adapt to climate change, as follows:
y sustainable development (SSP1);
y middle-of-the-road development (SSP2);
y regional rivalry (SSP3);
y inequality (SSP4); and
y fossil–fuelled development (SSP5).
International Energy Agency (IEA)
In contrast to the IPCC approach, the IEA focuses on energy and emission scenarios. The IEA’s World
Energy Model runs three main scenarios describing the future energy mix:
y Current Policies Scenario (CPS): This scenario considers policies that are in place at the preceding year
of publication (i.e., mid-2019 for the 2019 World Energy Outlook), without any additional government
policy intervention.
y Stated Policies Scenario (SPS): This scenario is designed to explore all policies enacted in the preceding
year, plus the policies that have been firmly communicated or committed to by national authorities. The
SPS scenario assumes that there is a slow implementation of these policies, based on the IEA’s
assessment of the many political, institutional, and societal barriers that exist to a rapid transition.
y Sustainable Development Scenario (SDS): This scenario assumes the world is successful in achieving
Sustainable Development Goals by 2030. The SDS holds the temperature rise to below 1.8°C with a 66%
probability without reliance on global net-negative CO2 emissions.
JSE Limited Climate Disclosure Guidance 2021 21
In addition to the NDC, South Africa’s Long-term
Adaptation Scenarios, which were released in 2013,
present a range of possible future climate conditions
over three time periods: 2015–2030, 2040–2060 and
2080–2100 that can be considered.25
2.5.2 Simplified approach for first time
scenarios
For those companies starting a scenario analysis for
the first time, the steps and guidelines available may
seem overwhelming and daunting. Choosing existing
scenarios, or using aspects of existing scenarios, are
often the easiest way to begin a scenario analysis,
and after scenarios are chosen the process may
become much more clear. As an important aspect of
the TCFD recommendations, companies should always
choose a simplified scenario over no scenario. In order
to simplify the process, companies can ask themselves
three key questions:
y Would the business be profitable if countries were
successful in achieving the goals of the Paris
Agreement and there is an orderly transition to a
low-carbon economy?
y Would the business be profitable if there is an
abrupt and disorderly transition as countries belatedly
catch up on climate goals?
y Would the business be profitable if there is a failure
to transition?
2.6 Just transition
South Africa, which is the world’s 12th largest GHG
emitter26, is highly exposed to the risks resulting from
the transition to a low emission economy due to its
reliance on fossil fuels, including coal-fired power and
related mining activity. The Paris Agreement incorporated
the notion of a “just transition”, which originated in the
labour movement, to signal the importance of minimising
the negative impacts and maximising the positive
opportunities for communities and workers as part of
the shift toward a low emission economy. Given the
importance of the just transition to South Africa, it will
be critical for issuers to pay increasing attention to the
related risks and opportunities.
In mid-2021, the TCFD undertook a public consultation
on its Proposed Guidance on Climate-related Metrics,
Targets, and Transition Plans and the associated
IPCC, IEA AND NGFS SCENARIOS continued
In May 2021, the IEA released a new Net Zero Emissions by 2050 Scenario (NZE) based on
detailed modelling of the energy sector. The NZE looks to hold energy‐related and industrial process
CO2 emissions to 2030 in line with reductions in 1.5°C scenarios.
The Network for Greening Financial System (NGFS) Scenario
The Network for Greening the Financial System (NGFS), a group of over 80 central banks, including the
South African Reserve Bank, focused on addressing climate risks, worked with an academic consortium
from the Potsdam Institute, IIASA, University of Maryland, Climate Analytics and the Swiss Federal Institute
of Technology (ETHZ). It set out 3 reference scenarios and 5 additional scenarios that cover a comprehensive
range of transition pathways and climate outcomes, meeting the needs of the financial sector. The scenarios
include multiple IAMs (REMIND, GCAM, and MESSAGE), climate models (on the physical risk side) and
macro models (added in phase II) to provide more complete macro pathways. NGFS consulted the wider
scientific and financial communities to ensure the scenarios are robust, effective, and usable, and will
continue to evolve the scenarios, increasing sectoral and geographic granularity of emissions/energy data,
and adding more climatic events, regulatory policy indicators, and macro variables.
As central banks and supervisors globally will likely ask the institutions they supervise to use these
scenarios, who in turn could make the same request upon their corporate clients, there will likely be a net
efficiency to the financial system using these scenarios and working with NGFS to ensure their robustness
and usefulness.
Sources: UN SSE, with data from the TCFD Technical Supplement titled “The use of scenario analysis in disclosure of climate-related risks
and opportunities” and the NGFS website.
25 Department of Environmental Affairs, Long Term Adaptation Scenarios for South Africa, 2013.
26 Global Carbon Atlas, 2019.
22 JSE Limited Climate Disclosure Guidance 2021
Measuring Portfolio Alignment: Technical Supplement.
Similarly, the IFRS’ Climate-related Disclosures Prototype
calls for the disclosure of information that allows users
to understand the impact of climate-related risks and
opportunities on management’s strategy, including its
transition plans. Specific requirements include disclosure
of how climate-related targets will be achieved, the
resources required, assumptions regarding the use
of offsets, and the direct and indirect mitigation and
adaption efforts being undertaken.27
Issuers should be cognisant of these developments It is
also recommended that they incorporate disclosure of
related social issues into their TCFD reporting to reflect
the importance of these dynamics in the local context.
Some recommended metrics are as follows:
y Does the issuer have a just transition plan that
commits to stakeholder engagement with workers
and communities?
y How many engagements have been undertaken with
affected parties by group, geography etc?
y How many workers in the past year have been
retrained/retrenched/compensated due to their
decarbonisation plans?
y How do lobbying activities and those of associations
and membership group align with the objectives of
the Paris Agreement?
y How is executive remuneration aligned to the
transition plan?
y Do climate scenarios include impacts on workers and
communities?
y How much capital or expenditure is deployed toward
climate adaptation or climate mitigation projects?
27 IFRS Technical Readiness Working Group, Climate-related Disclosures Prototype, 2021, p9.
JSE Limited Climate Disclosure Guidance 2021 23
Disclosure content
03
The third step for organisations that
have recognised the need for action
on climate is to communicate their
action and intentions through climaterelated disclosures.
24 JSE Limited Climate Disclosure Guidance
The TCFD recommendations for
disclosure are the current best
practice in determining what
information relating to climate
should be reported on. Many
companies may already be reporting
on some or all of the recommended
disclosures, but should ensure that
this information is accessible and
easy to find.
Report preparers can initially use the TCFD
Checklist (Annex 1) as a means of taking stock
of where this information can be found, and
provide it as a map in their TCFD or climaterelated reporting. The recommended
disclosure content within the TCFD
publications has also been mapped with most
major reporting frameworks (Annex 2). Further
discussion on frameworks can be found in
Chapter 4 of this guidance.
JSE Limited Climate Disclosure Guidance 25
3.1 Investor-useful
information
Investors want to understand how a company is
positioning itself strategically in light of its climaterelated risks and opportunities. They frequently indicate
that climate-related risks and opportunities have a
significant impact on their investment decisions. In a
2019 TCFD survey, investors rated information on the
resiliency of a company’s strategy and how its strategy
might be affected by or changed to address potential
climate related issues, as very useful.28 In the 2021
TCFD consultation, 90% of investors indicated that
it would be helpful for report preparers to disclose
climate-related impacts on financial performance and
financial position.29
Companies reporting on climate should be aware that
investors are looking for information that gives them
confidence that companies understand climate-related
issues, how they impact the business and what action
they are taking as a result. According to the King IV
Report, the board should ensure that reports allow
stakeholders to make informed assessments of
performance and the prospects over the short-,
medium- and long-term.
Many investors with diversified portfolios are also
asking for consistent data across all companies they
invest in to be able to apply consistent methodologies
to inform the level of investment they are making in
each company. Therefore in order to ensure that the
efforts put in by report preparers have the desired
impact in informing shareholders of the climateresiliency of their company, information should be
shared in a standardised format and include the
content that investors are looking for.
3.2 Reporting on opportunities
and use of taxonomies
TCFD recommends that where relevant, organisations
should provide climate-related opportunity metrics such
as revenue from products and services designed for a
lower-carbon economy. Some of the opportunities
created by the climate transition impact financial
statements primarily through cost reductions and
efficiency creation, such as resource efficiency and
energy sources. Opportunities that the corporation is
taking advantage of should be reported to investors not
only to indicate a strategic alignment with climateresiliency but also to indicate expected future savings
or efficiency increases. Other opportunities, however,
also provide new revenue to the business, often referred
to as “green revenues”. By introducing new products or
services, or accessing new markets, organisations may
tap into new revenue streams that are climate-aligned.
Reporting on climate-related opportunities will often
mean breaking down the revenues associated with
certain activity segments that enable climate mitigation
or adaptation.
One significant challenge in reporting opportunities is
defining which product and service categories to
identify. A solution for this can be found in the growing
development of green and sustainable finance
“taxonomies” by various regulators. The EU has been
pioneering in this regard, while a draft South African
Green Finance Taxonomy was released in June 2021.
The green finance taxonomy provides a catalogue of
assets, projects and sectors that can be defined as
“green” in accordance with international best practice
and national priorities. Benefits to the financial sector
include greater clarity and certainty in selecting and
issuing green financial instruments and greater
regulatory support.
3.3 Carbon emission reporting
Carbon reporting standardises into one metric the
combined climate impact in CO2 equivalent units for the
measurement of the release of all gases linked to the
greenhouse effect and climate change. Also referred to
as carbon footprinting, this activity measures what
amount of these gases an organisation is responsible
for through a system which classifies emissions as
scope 1, 2 or 3, depending on the source of the
emissions (Figure 3.1). As per the GHG Protocol
Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard,30 scope
1, 2 and 3 emissions can be broadly understood as:
y Scope 1 (Direct GHG emissions): Emissions that
occur from sources that are owned or co ntrolled
by the company. For example, emissions from
combustion in owned or controlled boilers, furnaces,
vehicles, etc.; emissions from chemical production in
owned or controlled process equipment.
y Scope 2 (Electricity indirect GHG emissions):
Emissions from the generation of purchased
electricity, steam, heat and cooling consumed by the
company. Purchased electricity is defined as electricity
that is purchased or otherwise brought into the
organisational boundary of the company. Scope 2
emissions physically occur at the facility where
electricity is generated.
y Scope 3 (Other indirect GHG emissions): Emissions
that are a consequence of the activities of the company,
but occur from sources not owned or controlled by
the company. Some examples of scope 3 activities
are extraction and production of purchased materials;
28 See Table A5-5 in Appendix 5 in the 2020 TCFD Status Report.
29 TCFD, 2021 Status Report.
30 The Greenhouse Gas Protocol, A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard (revised edition), 2004.
26 JSE Limited Climate Disclosure Guidance 2021
BENCHMARKING CLIMATE TRANSITION
READINESS WITH TPI
Source: SSE initiative, with data from The Transition Pathway Initiative website and the Climate Action 100+ website.
The Transition Pathway Initiative (TPI) is a global initiative led by asset owners and supported by asset
managers. Aimed at investors and free to use, it assesses companies’ preparedness for the transition to a
low-carbon economy, supporting efforts to address climate change. Through robust and independent
research, the tool aims to empower investors to assess the alignment of their portfolios with the goals of
the Paris Agreement and to drive real world emission reductions through actions.
Using publicly disclosed company information, the TPI does the following assessments:
y Evaluates and tracks the quality of companies’ management of their greenhouse gas emissions and of
risks and opportunities related to the low-carbon transition;
y Evaluates how companies’ planned or expected future carbon performance compares to international
targets and national pledges made as part of the Paris Agreement;
y Publishes online the results of this analysis through a publicly-available tool hosted by its academic
partner, the Grantham Research Institute on Climate Change and the Environment at the London School
of Economics and Political Science (LSE).
y The TPI complements existing initiatives and frameworks, by aligning with prevailing disclosure
initiatives and with investors’ climate change and sustainability expectations. It is also being aligned
with the requirements of the TCFD and is used for the disclosure assessment of the Climate Action
100+ Net Zero Company Benchmark - an assessment of the world’s largest corporate greenhouse gas
emitters on their progress in the transition to the net zero future.
How investors can use the TPI
Investors are using the TPI for a broad range of activities, including ESG integration, active ownership,
informing proxy voting, exclusions, product creation due diligence, and demonstrating commitment to
environmental sustainability.
How listed companies can use the TPI
Companies can use the analysis already conducted by TPI on their own company, or if they have not been
evaluated by TPI, they can use the analysis of a competitor or similar industry analysis to determine the
baseline scenario analysis. Additionally, companies are also using TPI for other ESG-related exercises
such as helping suppliers to align climate policies across a global value chain.
transportation of purchased fuels; business travel
and employee commuting, and use of sold products
and services. For stock exchanges, scope 3
emissions will include business travel (emissions
of means of transport).
GHG emission calculation is now an integral part of
many corporations’ reporting, and is used to set targets,
identify opportunities and show progress. Many reporting
frameworks provide guidance on reporting and measuring
GHG emissions, such as SASB’s Implementation
Supplement which provides an overview of SASB’s
approach to GHG emissions and related topics in the
SASB Standards. It also offers guidance for reporting
entities that wish to disclose Scope 1, 2, or 3 emissions.
GHG Protocol (Figure 3.1) has been widely adopted by
many companies to measure GHG emissions and has
been referenced by many standards and frameworks
including TCFD, the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), the
Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) and the Sustainability
Accounting Standards Board (SASB).
JSE Limited Climate Disclosure Guidance 2021 27
3.4 Setting targets
To achieve climate-resilient markets and net-zero
emissions issuers will need to set both attainable and
impact-driven targets, based on widely understood and
accepted definitions. The TCFD recommends that
organisations describe their climate-related targets
such as those related to GHG emissions, water usage,
energy usage, etc. in line with the anticipated regulatory
requirements or market constraints. It also
recommends that, where relevant, the internal carbon
price that is used to measure impact and set targets be
disclosed. While some JSE-listed companies use the
carbon tax to determine an internal carbon price, the
current tax rate is significantly below the level estimated
to be required in order to achieve the goals of the Paris
Agreement.
Organisations should also align their climate-related
targets with other goals such as efficiency or financial
goals, financial loss tolerance, avoidance of GHG
emissions through the entire product life cycle, or net
revenue goals for products and services designed for a
lower-carbon economy. A major and growing focus for
many companies and investors is in the setting of
emissions targets that are aligned with the trajectory
towards net zero emissions before 2050, which
according to the scientific community, is needed to
BENCHMARKING CLIMATE TRANSITION
READINESS WITH TPI continued
The TPI’s 4 level staircase can also be used to help companies chart a pathway of constant progression
and set objectives for their climate-related disclosure journey.
TPI’s four levels of TCFD alignment
Company explicitly
recognises climate change
as a significant issue for the
business
Company has a policy (or
equivalent) commitment to
action on climate change
Company has set energy
efficiency or relative or
absolute GHG emission
reduction targets
Company has published
info on its Scope 1 & 2 GHG
emissions
Company has nominated
a board member or board
committee with explicit
responsibility for oversight
of the climate change policy
Company has set
quantitative targets for
reducing Scope 1 & 2 GHG
emissions (relative or
absolute)
Company reports on its
Scope 3 GHG emissions
Company has had its Scope
1 & 2 GHG emissions data
verified
Company has reduced its
Scope 1 & 2 GHG emissions
over the past 3 years
Company provides
information on the business
costs associated with
climate change
Company has set long-term
quantitative targets (>5
years) for reducing its GHG
emissions
Company has incorporated
ESG issues into executive
remuneration
LEVEL 1
ACKNOWLEDGEMENT
LEVEL 2
BUILDING CAPACITY
LEVEL 3
INTEGRATED INTO
OPERATIONAL
DECISION MAKING
LEVEL 4
STRATEGIC
ASSESSMENT
Source: Page 4 of Transition Pathway Initiative’s report “How can investors use the transition pathway initiative? Version 1.0–11 January 2016”
28 JSE Limited Climate Disclosure Guidance 2021
JSE Limited Climate Disclosure Guidance 2021 29
achieve keeping global average temperature increases
below 1.5°C. To ensure that targets align with climatescience, resources such as the Science Based Targets
initiative (SBTi - see box 3.2) can be consulted or used
to validate the process.
It is important that common definitions are used when
setting climate-related targets. First and foremost,
issuers should always refer to the relevant law and
guidance provided by their regulatory authority, using
this guidance as a supplement to legal requirements.
Climate data can also be available in pre or post issuance
documents of bond issuers. Investors are interested in
consistency across companies as well as within
companies. Trend lines, or proof of progress are more
useful than static targets or long-off objectives.
Therefore, companies should endeavour to show how
they have progressed over time on the climate-related
targets chosen. Whether providing historical data to
show this trendline or setting up new programs to
collect this data moving forward, it is important to set
targets that can be measured progressively and that
allow to monitor progress and update information on
climate-related science, and investor and reporting
requirements.
TCFD and global data vendors recommend providing
the following details when describing targets:
1. Definition of target, and if an emissions reduction
target is set, which scopes (1,2 and 3) are covered.
2. Whether there are absolute and intensity-based
targets. For the intensity-based targets, include the
details of the denominator used and its associated
changes over the equivalent time.
3. Time frames over which the target applies.
4. Base year from which progress is measured.
5. Whether there has or will be use of offsets in
achieving the target, with associated details.
6. Details regarding how and why the specific target/s
were determined.
7. Key performance indicators used to assess
progress against target.
Linking these targets to remuneration should also be
considered. The King IV Guidance Paper proposes that
remuneration should be linked to the performance of
sustainability and ESG targets, including those relating
to climate change.
Figure 3.1: Overview of GHG Protocol scopes and emissions across the value chain
Scope 2
INDIRECT
Scope 1
DIRECT
Upstream activities Reporting company Downstream activities
CO2 CH4 SF N4O HFC 6 S PFCS
Scope 3
INDIRECT
Scope 3
INDIRECT
Purchased goods
and services
Capital goods
Fuel and energy
related activities
Transportation
and distribution
Purchased electricity,
steam, heating and
cooling for own use
Transportation
and distribution
Processing of
sold products
Use of sold
products
End-of-life treatment of sold products
Leased
assets
Franchises
Investments
Waste generated in
operations Business
travel
Employee
commuting
Leased assets
Company
facilities
Company
vehicles
Source: Greenhouse Gas Protocol, Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) Accounting and Reporting Standard, 2011
30 JSE Limited Climate Disclosure Guidance 2021
3.4.1 Targeting net-zero emissions
A number of public and private organisations globally
have begun committing to decreasing or offsetting all
scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions to achieve what’s referred
to as “net-zero emissions”. Recognising the importance
of keeping global warming to 1.5°C, companies are
increasingly adopting net-zero climate targets. Achieving
net-zero emissions means that your organisation either
emits no greenhouse gas emissions or offsets its
emissions, for example, through actions such as tree
planting or employing technologies that can capture
carbon before it is released into the air.
SETTING SCIENCE BASED TARGETS
The Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi) is a collaboration between CDP, the United Nations
Global Compact (UNGC), World Resources Institute (WRI), and the World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF)
 and one of the We Mean Business Coalition commitments. Central to SBTi’s mission is ensuring that
companies have the tools they need to set targets in line with climate science, recognising that the
science itself is nuanced and dynamic. Due to the complexity of the science, the SBTi plays an important
role by conducting in-depth research and analysis, as well as consulting with scientists and sustainability
professionals, in order to develop science-based targets (SBT) and setting methods that are transparent,
robust, and actionable.
Methods endorsed by the SBTi are instructive frameworks that may be used by companies to set
emissions reduction targets consistent with the best available climate science. These methods are
constructed from three main elements: a greenhouse gas budget, a set of emission scenarios, and an
allocation approach. The SBTi’s procedure for developing a method begins with determining a
representative set of emissions scenarios that are considered plausible, responsible, objective, and
consistent and that are aligned with specific temperature goals (1.5˚C - 2˚C of global warming). In general,
SBTi scenarios must not exceed the GHG budget associated with the temperature goal prior to reaching
global net-zero emissions, in addition to meeting other criteria. An allocation approach is used to translate
the resulting global or sector-specific emissions pathway into practical requirements that align company
emissions with the pathway.
The Science Based Targets initiative has also developed methodologies to support net-zero targets. In
2019 SBTi launched a process to develop the first science-based global standard for corporate net-zero
targets, to ensure that companies’ net-zero targets translate into action that is consistent with achieving a
net-zero world by no later than 2050. In July 2021, in response to the increasing urgency for climate
action, SBTi launched a new strategy that increased the minimum target ambition from “well below 2°C’ to
‘1.5°C’ above pre-industrial levels.
Source: SSE initiative, with data from the Science Based Targets initiative website – www.sciencebasedtargets.org
Many countries have announced the timeline for
achieving carbon neutrality since 2019 and started
to explore the pathways in achieving the goal. South
Africa’s Low-Emission Development Strategy, which
was released in February 2020, initiated the country’s
path to “ultimately moving towards a goal of net zero
carbon emissions by 2050.” Work is now underway under
the auspices of the Presidential Climate Commission to
realise this vision. Such national goals will influence the
actions and decision-making process for financial
institutions and listed companies. Therefore, the timeline,
goals, and pathways to achieve carbon reduction for
each individual company, including the models and
tools used, would be relevant for disclosure.
JSE Limited Climate Disclosure Guidance 2021 31
Disclosure presentation
and validation
04
Issuers have several frameworks or
formats to present the information
recommended for disclosure by the
TCFD.
32 JSE Limited Climate Disclosure Guidance 2021
By using the TCFD Checklist (Annex 1),
together with the guidance in previous
chapters, issuers should now have
an idea of what information they are
already disclosing and what disclosures
they are missing.
This chapter of the guidance helps issuers to
align TCFD recommendations with disclosure
frameworks to enhance efficiency, as well as
providing guidance on how and where to disclose
climate-related data.
JSE Limited Climate Disclosure Guidance 2021 33
4.1 Frameworks
for disclosure
Issuers should aim to follow the JSE Sustainability
Disclosure Guidance’s key principles for useful ESG
data and an effective ESG report to ensure they achieve
high-quality and decision-useful disclosures that enable
users to understand the impact of climate change on
organisations.
y Accuracy: The organisation should report
information that is correct and sufficiently detailed to
allow an assessment of the organisation’s impacts.
y Balance: The organisation should report information
in an unbiased way and provide a fair representation
of the organisation’s negative and positive impacts.
y Clarity: The organisation should present information
in a way that is accessible and understandable.
y Comparability: The organisation should select,
compile, and report information consistently to
enable an analysis of changes in the organisation’s
impacts over time and an analysis of these impacts
relative to those of other organisations.
y Completeness: The organisation should provide
sufficient information to enable an assessment of the
organisation’s impacts during the reporting period.
y Material: in terms of enterprise value and/or impact
on society and the environment. The reporting
organisation should disclose sustainability/ESG
information that is reasonably capable of making
 a difference to the conclusions drawn by:
− providers of finance concerning the ability of the
organisation to create long term value for the
organisation (the focus of the integrated report);
and
− stakeholders more broadly concerning the
organisation’s most significant impacts on the
economy, environment, and people, including
impacts on their human rights (the focus of
additional disclosure such as a sustainability or
ESG report)
y Stakeholder inclusive: The reporting organisation
should identify its stakeholders and explain how it
has responded to their reasonable expectations and
interests.
y Sustainability context: recognising critical
environmental thresholds and social pressures
The organisation should report information about its
impacts in the wider context of sustainable
development.
y Timeliness: The organisation should disclose
information on a regular schedule and make it
available in time for information users to make
decisions.
y Verifiability: The organisation should gather, record,
compile, and analyse information in such a way
that the information can be examined to establish
its quality.
While companies have several frameworks at their
disposal for disclosing climate, as well as social and
corporate governance information, most, if not all,
have now been mapped and aligned to the TCFD
recommendations to ensure consistency and efficiency.
It has been recognised that consistency among
reporting frameworks is essential to ensure information
provided by companies is decision useful. To this end,
several initiatives have been launched to ensure
consistency among reporting frameworks. In 2020, the
CDP, CDSB, GRI, IIRC and SASB released a statement of
intent that presented a summary of alignment discussions
and a commitment towards working together towards
a comprehensive corporate reporting system.32
To help map issuers’ current disclosure formats to
the TCFD, Annex 2 indicates alignment of indicators
between main reporting frameworks, including the
IFRS’ Climate-related Disclosures Prototype, to the
TCFD. If issuers already report using GRI and CDP, for
example, they can use Annex 2 as a cross-reference
when completing the TCFD Checklist (Annex 2),
and may wish to include this in their map of TCFD
information. Issuers are encouraged to use the metrics
recommended by the TCFD to ensure consistency
throughout the market and globally. The JSE
Sustainability Disclosure Guidance also includes a set
of suggested metrics that address climate change that
are aligned with this document.
4.2 Data verification
and assurance
Information disclosed in external reports should follow
internal assurance procedures to ensure the data is
accurate, appropriate, and reliable. Issuers may
consider engaging external consultants to undertake
assurance procedures to improve the credibility of their
data with third party audit and external support may be
essential if the capacity does not exist internally. As
climate-related disclosures become more common and
are included in mainstream financial filings, the
governance process should be similar to those used for
existing public financial disclosures and should
therefore include a review by the chief financial officer
and audit committee or equivalents.
32 CDP, CDSB, GRI, IIRC and SASB, Statement of Intent to Work Together Towards Comprehensive Corporate Reporting.
34 JSE Limited Climate Disclosure Guidance 2021
An internal assurance process can ensure accurate and
better data, leading to better decision-making and
performance for the issuer. This process can be
undertaken using the existing internal audit, risk and
data control verification systems already developed for
mainstream financial reporting processes. If internal
systems are not currently sufficient for the task, a
company may decide that it is in its long-term best
interest to invest in building capacity in this area. This
information is often reported by the company in the
governance section of the TCFD recommendations.
In addition to internal assurance procedures, an
external audit can add trust, credibility and recognition
to the organisation’s reporting practices. Accounting,
engineering and specialist service firms are the most
common third-party assurance providers. In order to
decide the type and level of assurance, it is important
for companies to consider recommended standards for
assurance within their sector, as well as stakeholder
expectations. Additional resources on assurance
procedures can be found in Table 5.1.
The King IV Guidance Paper on Responsibilities of
Governing Bodies in Responding to Climate Change
notes that assurance should contribute to consistent
and reliable reporting and that the presentation of
climate change information should “ultimately meet the
requirements of being auditable or capable of being
subject to assurance being expressed thereon.”34
4.3 Location and timing of
climate-related disclosure
The purpose of disclosing climate-related information
is that investors and other market participants and
stakeholders can access and use the information
provided by issuers for their own internal decisionmaking processes. Information determined to be
financially material (see section 2.4 of Chapter 2) and
legally required, will be disclosed within organisations’
mainstream financial filings. Both primary accounting
standard setting bodies, the International Accounting
Standards board (IASB) and the Financial Accounting
Standards Board (FASB) have issued standards to
address risks and uncertainties affecting companies.
The International Accounting Standard (IAS) 37
“Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent
Assets” and the Accounting Standards Codification
(ASC) 450 “Contingencies” both provide guidance on
how to account for and disclose contingencies such as
those discussed in this guidance. In addition, IAS 36
“Impairment of Assets” and ASC 360 “Long-lived Asset
Impairment” provide additional guidance on long-lived
assets that may be impacted by climate-change.
The TCFD recommends that organisations provide
climate-related financial disclosures in mainstream
financial filings. Similarly, the suggested practices in the
King IV Guidance Paper on Responsibilities of
Governing Bodies in Responding to Climate Change is
that climate risk impacts on governance, the business
model, strategy, risk management, and performance
and prospects are disclosed in the Annual Report and
Integrated Report, not in a separate Sustainability
Report, and that the Climate Disclosure Guidance in the
financial statements are consistent with those in other
reports. The JSE supports the TCFD’s recommendation
and the King IV suggested practices.
It is recognised, however, that some climate-related
information may not be compatible with the current
reporting requirements or deemed financially material.
When this is the case, organisations may wish to
disclose certain elements in other official company
reports that are issued at least on an annual basis and
are widely distributed and available to investors and
other stakeholders. The reports should be subject to
internal governance processes that are the same or
substantially similar to those used for financial
reporting. Ideally, climate data and financial data should
be reported at the same point in time and cover the
same reporting boundaries and time periods to aid
comparison and analysis.
34 Institute of Directors, King IV Guidance Paper: Responsibilities of Governing Bodies in Responding to Climate Change, 2021.
JSE Limited Climate Disclosure Guidance 2021 35
Education
and resources
05
This guidance acts as a starting point
for all issuers to evaluate and update
their current disclosure practices to
ensure their resilience to climaterelated issues.
36 JSE Limited Climate Disclosure Guidance 2021
It provides three important stages of
disclosure and a diagnostic TCFD
Checklist to help issuers begin their
journey to climate-resiliency. It is
essential, however, that issuers see
this as an ongoing journey and aim to
improve upon and update knowledge
on this topic on an ongoing basis.
This chapter provides issuers with a series of
resources they can use to continually update
their climate-related knowledge and know-how,
as well as to support those report-preparers
looking to deepen their climate-related
disclosure.
JSE Limited Climate Disclosure Guidance 2021 37
5.1 Resources for updating scientific knowledge
There are a number of resources available for organisations to maintain up-to-date information on this constantly
evolving topic. As both the science behind climate-related issues as well as the reporting requirements evolve and grow,
organisations should ensure they are working with the most up-to-date information. To do this, a number of resources
are available, through the TCFD as well as many other financial service providers, NGOs, UN agencies, and local and
international organisations.
To further assist in your disclosure journey, the following resources (Table 5.1) can help those companies that wish to
delve deeper or access specific resources on a particular stage of this journey. For additional resources, all capital
market stakeholders are encouraged to access the TCFD knowledge hub at tcfdhub.org
Table 5.1 Additional resources for TCFD implementation
Related section of this Guidance Author Title
1 – Setting the Stage International Energy Agency (IEA) Energy Technology Perspectives 2017
1.4 – Differential Reporting A4S (Accounting for Sustainability) TCFD Top Tips for Finance Teams
1.4 – Differential Reporting A4S (Accounting for Sustainability) Maturity Map for TCFD
2.1 – Climate Opportunities International Energy Agency (IEA) ETP Clean Energy Technology Guide
2.1.1 – Financing Opportunities FTSE Russell (LSEG) Sustainable Bond Market at a Glance
2.1.1 – Financing Opportunities Climate Bonds Initiative (CBI) Guidance and Data on the Green Bond
Market Globally
2.1.1 – Financing Opportunities FTSE Russell (LSEG) Case Study: Smart Beta meets Smart
Sustainability
2.2 – Climate Risks TCFD TCFD Guidance on Risk Management
Integration and Disclosure
2.2 – Climate Risks SASB & CDSB Climate Risk: from Principles to Practice
2.2 – Climate Risks S&P Trucost Interplay of Transition and Physical Risk
Report
2.3 – Climate Governance CDSB Webinar: Directors Duties and Liabilities
around Climate Risk
2.3 – Climate Governance King IV Guidance Paper: Responsibilities of
Governing Bodies in Responding to
Climate Change
2.4 – Materiality Assessment CDSB Materiality and TCFD
2.4 – Materiality Assessment SASB Materiality Map
2.4 – Materiality Assessment Integrated Reporting <IR> Materiality background paper for <IR>
2.5 – Scenario Analysis TCFD Scenario Analysis and Climate-Related
Issues
2.5 – Scenario Analysis TCFD TCFD Guidance on Scenario Analysis for
Non-Financial Companies
2.5 – Scenario Analysis C2ES Using Scenarios to Assess and Report
Climate-Related Financial Risk
2.5 – Scenario Analysis UNFCCC NDC Registry
38 JSE Limited Climate Disclosure Guidance 2021
Related section of this Guidance Author Title
2.5 – Scenario Analysis IPCC IPCC Emission Scenarios
2.5 – Scenario Analysis International Energy Agency (IEA) IEA Scenarios
2.5 – Scenario Analysis International Renewable Energy
Agency (IRENA) IRENA Scenarios
2.5 – Scenario Analysis International Institute for Applied
Systems Analysis (IIASA)
Shared Socioeconomic Pathways (SSP)
Database
2.6 – Just transition CDP Climate Transition Plans
2.6 – Just transition TCFD Guidance on Metrics, Targets, and
Transition Plans
3.1 – Investor useful
information
Transition Pathway Initiative (TPI)
The TPI Tool
3.1 – Investor useful
information
Portfolio Alignment Team Measuring Portfolio Alignment Assessing
the Position of Companies and Portfolios
on the Path to Net Zero
3.2 – Reporting on opportunities
and use of taxonomies
National Treasury Draft South African Green Finance
Taxonomy
3.2 – Reporting on opportunities
and use of taxonomies
European Commission
EU taxonomy for sustainable activities
3.3 – Setting Targets Science Based Targets initiative
(SBTi) Sector Guidance
3.3 – Setting Targets International Energy Agency (IEA) Achieving Net-zero Emissions by 2050
- World Energy Outlook 2020
3.3 – Setting Targets TCFD Guidance on Metrics, Targets, and
Transition Plans
3.3 – Carbon emission reporting The Greenhouse Gas Protocol A Corporate Accounting and Reporting
Standard (revised edition)
3.3 – Carbon emission reporting SASB SASB Implementation Supplement –
Greenhouse Gas Emissions and SASB
Standards
3.4 – Setting Targets Science Based Targets initiative
(SBTi) Sector Guidance
3.4 – Setting Targets International Energy Agency (IEA) Achieving Net-zero Emissions by 2050
- World Energy Outlook 2020
4.1 – Frameworks for Disclosure Corporate Reporting Dialogue Driving Alignment in Climate-related
Reporting
4.1 – Frameworks for Disclosure CDSB, TCFD Knowledge Hub Alignment with Other Frameworks
4.1 – Frameworks for Disclosure CDP CDP Technical Note on the TCFD
4.1 – Frameworks for Disclosure European Commission Guidelines on Reporting Climate-related
Information
4.1 – Frameworks for Disclosure IFRS Climate-related Disclosures Prototype
JSE Limited Climate Disclosure Guidance 2021 39
Related section of this Guidance Author Title
4.2 – Data Verification
and Assurance
Chartered Accountants in England
and Wales (ICAEW) and the WBCSD
A Buyer’s Guide to Assurance on
Non-financial Information
4.2 – Data Verification
and Assurance
CDSB CDSB Position Paper: Positions on
Relevance & Materiality, Organisational
Boundaries and Assurance
All TCFD Hub
Case Studies on How Organisations are
using the TCFD Recommendations
All Bloomberg
A guide to the Task Force on climaterelated disclosures
All CDSB and SASB TCFD Good Practice Handbook
All CDSB and SASB TCFD Implementation Guide
All CPA Canada
Enhancing Climate-related Disclosure by
Cities: A Guide to Adopting the
Recommendations of the Task Force on
Climate-related Financial Disclosures
(TCFD)
All TCFD
Implementing the Recommendations of
the Task Force on Climate-related
Financial Disclosures (2021)
All A4S (Accounting for Sustainability)
Numerous Case Studies on Applying
TCFD
All
South Africa Climate Risk Steering
Group
South Africa Sustainable Finance
Initiative
All Trade & Industrial Policy Strategies Just Transition Knowledge Portal
All Presidential Climate Commission Just Transition Framework
All Department of Environmental Affairs Climate Change Information Portal
Source: UN SSE with additional South Africa–relevant resources
40 JSE Limited Climate Disclosure Guidance 2021
Annex 1: TCFD Checklist
The TCFD recommendations give companies a list of disclosures that
should be included in mainstream financial reports when deemed
financially material.
As such, all of the recommendations in the below checklist should ideally be found in the company’s mainstream
financial filings. Potentially further detail may be provided in supplementary reports including sustainability reports. If
information is not provided then an explanation outlining the rationale for not covering it would be helpful. Issuers are
encouraged to use this checklist to determine whether or not the information recommended for disclosure by the
TCFD can be found in their current reporting content. The checklist was compiled by the SSE initiative using the
TCFD recommendations to help issuers diagnose their current reporting and create a path towards full alignment
with TCFD recommendations.
Issuers can use this checklist to determine whether the informational needs of investors pertaining to climate are
addressed by current disclosures. Where sufficient data to answer a question is not currently available in public
reports, report preparers should focus on ensuring this information is added to their disclosure content. Where the
issuer determines insufficient financial materiality to deem including this information in the mainstream financial
filings, the report preparers should explain at a minimum how this decision was made and what time horizons were
being used in supplemental reports such as a sustainability report. Where sufficient data is provided in public reports
to answer a question, report preparers are encouraged to also indicate where it can be accessed within their current
disclosure so that it is easy to find. This checklist can therefore be used as a map for investors looking for the
following data.
TCFD Checklist
Does current disclosure answer the question?
Location
of data
GOVERNANCE
(a) Board oversight of climate-related risks and opportunities
ALL Are board and/or board committees (e.g., audit, risk, or other committees)
informed about climate-related issues?
y Does the company recognise climate change as a relevant risk and/or
opportunity for the business?
y Is there a board member or committee with explicit responsibility for oversight
of the climate change policy?
ALL Do board and/or board committees consider climate-related issues when
reviewing and guiding:
y major plans of action,
y risk management policies,
y business plans,
y annual budgets,
y strategy,
y performance objective, monitoring implementation and performance, and
y overseeing major capital expenditures, acquisitions, and divestitures.
ALL How does the board monitor and oversee progress against goals and targets for
addressing climate-related issues?
JSE Limited Climate Disclosure Guidance 2021 41
Does current disclosure answer the question?
Location
of data
(b) Management’s role in assessing and managing climate-related risks and opportunities
ALL Does the organisation have assigned climate-related responsibilities to
management-level positions or committees? If so, how do such management
positions or committees report to the board or a committee of the board and do
those responsibilities include assessing and/or managing climate-related issues?
ALL How are managers informed about climate-related issues?
ALL How do managers monitor climate-related issues?
STRATEGY
(a) Identification of climate-related risks and opportunities over the short, medium, and long term.
ALL How does the organisation define short-, medium-, and long-term time horizons?
Does this take into consideration the useful life of the organisation’s assets or
infrastructure and the fact that climate-related issues often manifest themselves
over the medium and longer terms?
ALL What specific climate-related issues that could have a material financial impact
on the organisation have been identified for each time horizon (short, medium,
and long term)?
y Is this consistent with climate change policy and positions taken by trade
associations of which the organisation is a member?
ALL Is a materiality analysis used to determine which risks and opportunities could
have a material financial impact on the organisation?
ALL Is a scenario analysis used to determine which risks and opportunities could
have a material financial impact on the organisation?
ALL Are risks and opportunities considered by sector and/or geography?
(b) The impact of climate-related risks and opportunities on the organisation’s businesses,
strategy, and financial planning
ALL How do climate-related risks and opportunities impact on businesses and
strategy in the following areas:
y Products and services,
y Supply chain and/or value chain,
y Adaptation and mitigation activities,
y Investment in research and development,
y Operations (including types of operations and location of facilities).
ALL What are the time period(s) used, and how are climate-related risks and
opportunities prioritized as inputs into the financial planning process?
Insurance How do potential impacts of climate-related risks and opportunities influence
client, cedent, or broker selection?
Insurance Are specific climate-related products or competencies under development, such
as insurance of green infrastructure, specialty climate-related risk advisory
services, and climate-related client engagement?
Asset Owners How are climate-related risks and opportunities factored into relevant investment
strategies?
42 JSE Limited Climate Disclosure Guidance 2021
Does current disclosure answer the question?
Location
of data
Asset Managers How are climate-related risks and opportunities factored into relevant products
and investment strategies?
Asset Managers How might the transition to a lower-carbon economy affect each product or
investment strategy?
Non Financial
Orgs
How are climate-related risks and opportunities integrated into current decision
making and future strategy formulation through (where applicable):
y research and development (R&D) and adoption of new technology;
y existing and committed future activities such as investments, restructuring,
write-downs, or impairment of assets;
y critical planning assumptions around legacy assets, for example, strategies to
lower carbon-, energy-, and/or water-intensive operations;
y how GHG emissions, energy, and water issues, if applicable, are considered in
capital planning and allocation; this could include a discussion of major
acquisitions and divestments, joint-ventures, and investments in technology,
innovation, and new business areas in light of changing climate-related risks
and opportunities; and/or
y the organisation’s flexibility in positioning/repositioning capital to address
emerging climate-related risks and opportunities.
(c) The organisation’s strategy resilience, taking into consideration different climate-related
scenarios, including a 2°C or lower scenario (ideally 1.5°C).
ALL Has the organisation conducted a scenario analysis that evaluates how resilient
their strategies are to climate-related risks and opportunities?
ALL Does the analysis include a 2°C or lower scenario (ideally 1.5°C)?
ALL What time horizons are considered in the organisation’s climate-related scenario
analysis?
ALL How will climate-related risks and opportunities (as listed in table 1 and 2 or the
TCFD recommendations) affect the organisation’s strategies, and how may
strategies change to address potential climate-related risks and opportunities?
Insurance Is a climate-related scenario analysis conducted for underwriting activities? If so,
what scenario and what time frame is used?
Asset Owners How are climate-related scenarios used to inform investments in specific
assets?
Non Financial
Org’s
Where an organisation has more than one billion U.S. dollar equivalent (USDE) in
annual revenue, is a more robust scenario analysis conducted? This should
include assessing the resilience of strategies against a range of climate-related
scenarios, including a 2°C or lower scenario and, where relevant to the
organisation, scenarios consistent with increased physical climate-related risks
and the implications of different policy assumptions, macro-economic trends,
energy pathways, and technology assumptions used in publicly available
climate-related scenarios.
JSE Limited Climate Disclosure Guidance 2021 43
Does current disclosure answer the question?
Location
of data
RISK MANAGEMENT
(a) Climate-related risk management processes
ALL How does the organisation determine the relative significance of climate-related
risks in relation to other risks?
ALL Are existing and emerging regulatory requirements related to climate change
(e.g., limits on emissions) considered a risk by the organisation?
ALL How is the potential size and scope of identified climate-related risks
determined?
ALL How does the organisation define or classify risk and risk-related terms? (Is a
taxonomy used?)
Insurance How are climate-related risks on re-/insurance portfolios identified and assessed
(by geography, business division, or product segments)? Does this assessment
include the following:
y physical risks from changing frequencies and intensities of weather-related
perils;
y transition risks resulting from a reduction in insurable interest due to a decline
in value, changing energy costs, or implementation of carbon regulation; and/
or
y liability risks that could intensify due to a possible increase in litigation?
Asset Owner +
Managers
What engagement activities are undertaken with investee companies to
encourage better disclosure and practices related to climate-related risks to
improve data availability and asset owners’ ability to assess climate-related
risks?
Asset Manager How are climate-related risks identified and materiality assessed for each
product or investment strategy? What resources and tools are used in the
process?
Non-Financial
Org’s
What key metrics related to GHG emissions, energy, water, land use, and, if
relevant, investments in climate adaptation and mitigation that address potential
financial aspects of shifting demand, expenditures, asset valuation, and cost of
financing are used? (Have the illustrative examples in the TCFD Implementation
Guide tables 3-6 been taken into consideration?)
(b) Managing climate-related risks.
ALL How are decisions to mitigate, transfer, accept, or control climate-related risks
made?
ALL How is materiality determined for the risks listed in table 1 of the TCFD
recommendations?
Insurance What key tools or instruments, such as risk models, are used to manage
climate-related risks in relation to product development and pricing?
Insurance What are the range of climate-related events considered and how are the risks
generated by the rising propensity and severity of such events managed?
Asset Owner How is the positioning of the total portfolio considered with respect to the
transition to a lower-carbon energy supply, production, and use?
Asset Manager How are material climate-related risks managed for each product or investment
strategy?
44 JSE Limited Climate Disclosure Guidance 2021
Does current disclosure answer the question?
Location
of data
(c) Processes for identifying, assessing, and managing climate-related risks are integrated into the
organisation’s overall risk management.
ALL How are climate-related risks integrated into their overall risk management?
METRICS AND TARGETS
(a) Metrics used to assess climate-related risks and opportunities in line with its strategy and risk
management process
ALL What are the key metrics used to measure and manage the climate-related risks
and opportunities found in table 1 and 2 of the TCFD recommendations?
ALL Where climate-related issues are material, are related performance metrics
incorporated into remuneration policies?
ALL What internal carbon prices are used for measuring impact and setting targets?
ALL What climate-related opportunity metrics such as revenue from products and
services designed for a lower-carbon economy are used?
Banks To what extent is lending and other financial intermediary business activity
aligned with a well below 2°C scenario?
Insurance What is the aggregated risk exposure to weather-related catastrophes of the
organisation’s property business (i.e., annual aggregated expected losses from
weather-related catastrophes) by relevant jurisdiction?
Insurance To what extent are insurance underwriting activities aligned with a well below
2°C scenario?”
Asset Owner What metrics are used to assess climate-related risks and opportunities in
individual funds or investment strategies, and how do these metrics change over
time?
Asset Manager What metrics are used to assess climate-related risks and opportunities in each
product or investment strategy, and how do these metrics change over time?
Asset Owner +
Managers
To what extent are assets owned or managed or funds and investment
strategies, where relevant, aligned with a well below 2°C scenario?
(b) Scope 1, Scope 2, and, if appropriate, Scope 3 greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, and the
related risks.
ALL What are the Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions and, if appropriate, Scope 3
GHG emissions and the related risks of the organisation, according to GHG
Protocol methodology?
y Are Scope 3 emissions deemed materially relevant, and how was this
determined
y Are GHG emissions data externally verified?
ALL What are the historic GHG emissions and trends?
Banks What are the GHG emissions for lending and other financial intermediary
business activities where data and methodologies allow for calculation?
Insurance What is the weighted average carbon intensity or GHG emissions associated
with commercial property and speciality lines of business, where data and
methodologies allow for calculation?
JSE Limited Climate Disclosure Guidance 2021 45
Does current disclosure answer the question?
Location
of data
Asset Owner What is the weighted average carbon intensity, where data are available or can
be reasonably estimated, for each fund or investment strategy?
Asset Manager What is the weighted average carbon intensity, where data are available or can
be reasonably estimated, for each product or investment strategy?
Asset Owner +
Managers
What are the GHG emissions for assets owned or under management, where
data and methodologies allow for calculation?
(c) Targets used to manage climate-related risks and opportunities and performance
ALL What are the key climate-related targets such as those related to GHG
emissions, water usage, energy usage, etc. in line with anticipated regulatory
requirements or market constraints or other goals?
y What are the long-term quantitative targets for reducing GHG emissions?
y What interim targets have been set?
y Are targets consistent with cross-industry, climate-related metric categories?
ALL Does the organisation have climate-related targets pertaining to:
y efficiency or financial goals,
y financial loss tolerances,
y avoided GHG emissions through the entire product life cycle, or
y net revenue goals for products and services designed for a lower-carbon
economy?
ALL Are climate-related targets absolute or intensity based?
ALL What time frames are applied to each climate-related target?
ALL What is the base year used for each climate-related target?
ALL What key performance indicators are used to assess progress against each
climate-related target?
Source: SSE initiative, adapted from TCFD recommendations
46 JSE Limited Climate Disclosure Guidance 2021
Annex 2: Alignment of
recommended disclosures
with other frameworks
GOVERNANCE RECOMMENDED DISCLOSURES
Describe the board’s
oversight of climate-related
risks and opportunities.
EU NFRD 3.2 (Table 2)
G20/OECD Principles of Corporate Governance 5.a.4, 5.a.9, 6.a, 6.d.1, 6.d.2,
6.d.3, 6.d.4, 6.d.7, 6.e.2, 6.f
CDP Climate Change Questionnaire 2021 C1.1b
GRI 102: General Disclosures 102-18, 102-19. 102-20,
102-26, 102-27, 102-29,
102-31, 102-32
CDSB Climate Change Reporting Framework 4.16, 4.17
CDSB Framework for Reporting Environmental
Information and Natural Capital
REQ-03
International Integrated Reporting Framework 3.4, 3.41, 4.8, 4.9
IFRS Climate-related Disclosures Prototype 4a-f
Describe management’s role
in assessing and managing
risks and opportunities.
EU NFRD 3.2 (Table 2)
GRI 102: General Disclosures 102-29, 102-31, 102-32
CDP Climate Change Questionnaire 2021 C1.2, C1.2a
CDSB Climate Change Reporting Framework 2.8, 2.9, 4.12, 4.13, 4.16, 4.17
CDSB Framework for Reporting Environmental
Information and Natural Capital
REQ-01, REQ-03
IFRS Climate-related Disclosures Prototype 4(g)
JSE Limited Climate Disclosure Guidance 2021 47
STRATEGY RECOMMENDED DISCLOSURES
Describe the climate-related
risks and opportunities the
organisation has identified
over the short, medium,
and long term.
EU NFRD 3.4 (Table 4)
G20/OECD Principles of Corporate Governance 5.a.7, 5.a.8
CDP Climate Change Questionnaire 2021 C2.1a, C2.3, C2.4, C2.4a
CDSB Climate Change Reporting Framework 4.6, 4.9, 4.10, 4.11, 4.14
CDSB Framework for Reporting Environmental
Information & Natural Capital
REQ-02, REQ-06
GRI 102: General Disclosures 102-15
International Integrated Reporting Framework 3.5, 3.17, 4.6, 4.7, 4.23, 4.24,
4.25, 4.26
IFRS Climate-related Disclosures Prototype 5, 6
Describe the impact of
climate-related risks and
opportunities on the
organisation’s businesses,
strategy, and financial
planning.
EU NFRD 3.1 (Table 1)
G20/OECD Principles of Corporate Governance 5.a.2, 5.a.7, 5.a.8
CDP Climate Change Questionnaire 2021 C2.3a, C2.4a, C3.1, C3.2a, C3.3,
C3.4, C3.4a, C-FS3.7, C-FS3.7a,
GRI 201: Economic Performance 201-2
CDSB Climate Change Reporting Framework 2.8, 2.9, 2.10, 4.6, 4.7, 4.9, 4.10,
4.11, 4.12, 4.13, 4.14
CDSB Framework for Reporting Environmental
Information & Natural Capital
REQ-01, REQ-02, REQ-06
International Integrated Reporting Framework 3.3, 3.5, 3.39, 4.12, 4.23, 4.28,
4.29, 4.34, 4.35, 4.37
IFRS Climate-related Disclosures Prototype 7, 8, 9
Describe the resilience of
the organisation’s strategy,
taking into consideration
different climate-related
scenarios, including a 2°C
or lower scenario.
EU NFRD 3.1 (Table 1)
CDP Climate Change Questionnaire 2021 C3.2, C3.2a
CDSB Climate Change Reporting Framework 4.7
IFRS Climate-related Disclosures Prototype 10
48 JSE Limited Climate Disclosure Guidance 2021
RISK MANAGEMENT RECOMMENDED DISCLOSURES
Describe the organisation’s
processes for identifying and
assessing climate-related
risks.
EU NFRD 3.4 (Table 4)
G20/OECD Principles of Corporate Governance 5.a.2, 5.a.7
CDP Climate Change Questionnaire 2021 C2.1, C2.2, C2.2a, CFS2.2b,
C-FS2.2c, C-FS2.2f
GRI 201: Economic Performance 201-2
CDSB Climate Change Reporting Framework 4.6, 4.7, 4.8, 4.9, 4.11
CDSB Framework for Reporting Environmental
Information & Natural Capital
REQ-01, REQ-02, REQ-03
IFRS Climate-related Disclosures Prototype 11a-b
Describe the organisation’s
processes for managing
climate-related risks.
EU NFRD 3.4 (Table 4)
G20/OECD Principles of Corporate Governance 5.a.2, 5.a.7
CDP Climate Change Questionnaire 2021 C2.1, C2.2, CFS2.2f
CDSB Climate Change Reporting Framework 4.12, 4.13, 4.16, 4.17
CDSB Framework for Reporting Environmental
Information & Natural Capital
REQ-01, REQ-02, REQ-03
International Integrated Reporting Framework 4.23, 4.24, 4.25, 4.26, 4.40,
4.41, 4.42
IFRS Climate-related Disclosures Prototype 11c
Describe how processes for
identifying, assessing, and
managing climate-related
risks are integrated into the
organisation’s overall risk
management.
EU NFRD 3.4 (Table 4)
G20/OECD Principles of Corporate Governance 5.a.2, 5.a.7 6.d.1, 6.f
CDP Climate Change Questionnaire 2021 C2.1, C2.2
CDSB Climate Change Reporting Framework 4.6, 4.7
CDSB Framework for Reporting Environmental
Information & Natural Capital
REQ-01, REQ-02, REQ-03,
REQ-06
International Integrated Reporting Framework 2.7, 2.8, 2.9
IFRS Climate-related Disclosures Prototype 11d
JSE Limited Climate Disclosure Guidance 2021 49
METRICS AND TARGETS RECOMMENDED DISCLOSURES
Disclose the metrics used
by the organisation to assess
climate-related risks and
opportunities in line with
its strategy and risk
management process.
EU NFRD 3.5
G20/OECD Principles Of Corporate Governance 6.d.1, 6.d.7
CDP Climate Change Questionnaire 2021 C1.3, C4.2, C4.2a, C4.2b, C4.5,
C9.1
GRI 102: General Disclosures 102-30
CDSB Climate Change Reporting Framework 2.36, 2.37, 2.38, 4.14, 4.15
CDSB Framework for Reporting Environmental
Information & Natural Capital
REQ-01, REQ-04, REQ-05,
REQ-06
International Integrated Reporting Framework 3.52, 3.53, 4.30, 4.31, 4.32,
4.38, 4.53
IFRS Climate-related Disclosures Prototype 12, 13
Disclose Scope 1, Scope 2,
and, if appropriate, Scope 3
greenhouse gas (GHG)
emissions, and the related
risks.
EU NFRD 3.3 (Table 3)
CDP Climate Change Questionnaire 2021 C5.1, C6.1, C6.3, C6.5, C7.1,
C7.9, C-FS14.1, C-FS14.1a,
C-FS14.1b, C-FS14.1c
GRI 102: General Disclosures 102-29, 102-30
GRI 201: Economic Performance 201-2
CDSB Climate Change Reporting Framework 4.19.1, 4.19.2, 4.29, 4.30, 4.31,
4.32, 4.33
CDSB Framework for Reporting Environmental
Information & Natural Capital
REQ-04, REQ-05
IFRS Climate-related Disclosures Prototype 13a, 14
Describe the targets used by
the organisation to manage
climate-related risks and
opportunities and
performance against targets.
EU NFRD 3.3 (Table 3)
CDP Climate Change Questionnaire 2021 C4.1, C4.1a, C4.1b, C4.1c, C4.2,
C4.2a, C4.2b,
CDSB Climate Change Reporting Framework 4.12, 4.13, 4.14, 4.15
CDSB Framework for Reporting Environmental
Information & Natural Capital
REQ-01
International Integrated Reporting Framework 4.53, 4.60, 4.61, 4.62
IFRS Climate-related Disclosures Prototype 15
Source: SSE initiative, compiled from TCFD Hub, CDP, IFRS and the European Commission
