
Revealing the full picture
Your guide to
ESG reporting
Guidance for issuers on the
integration of ESG into investor
reporting and communication
This Guidance is for information only. It has been produced by London Stock
Exchange Group plc and its group companies, including London Stock Exchange
plc, FTSE Russell (a trading name of FTSE International Limited and Frank Russell
Company) and Borsa Italiana S.p.A (LSEG). While all information contained herein is
obtained from sources believed to be accurate and reliable, LSEG and the individual
authors of the Guidance do not accept responsibility for any errors, omissions,
or inaccurate information or any decisions made in reliance on this Guidance.
Any inaccuracies can be reported in writing to sustainablebusiness@lseg.com
but neither LSEG nor the individual authors of the Guidance shall become
responsible for such inaccuracies as a result of them being reported.
This publication does not constitute an offer to buy or sell, or a solicitation of
an offer to sell, any securities, or the solicitation of a proxy, by any person in any
jurisdiction in which such an offer or solicitation is not authorised, or in which the
person making such an offer or solicitation is not qualified to do so, or to any
person to whom it is unlawful to make such an offer or solicitation.
This Guidance is not offered as advice on any particular matter and must not
be treated as a substitute for specific advice. In particular, information in this
publication does not constitute legal, professional, financial or investment advice
or an endorsement of any particular reporting standard or framework in relation
to Environmental, Social and Governmental (ESG) factors. Advice from a suitably
qualified professional should always be sought in relation to any particular
matter or circumstances.

Introduction 2
Towards deeper understanding between issuers and investors 4
ESG reporting priorities 6
01. Strategic relevance 8
02. Investor materiality 12
03. Investment grade data 18
04. Global frameworks 22
05. Reporting formats 28
06. Regulation and investor communication 32
07. Green Revenue reporting 36
08. Debt finance 40
Summary 46
How LSEG supports ESG reporting and communication 47
Appendices 48
Contents
 60%
of assets managed for
EU investors incorporate
sustainable investment
strategies
Revealing the full picture Introduction
Once upon a time, environmental, social and governance
(ESG) factors were a niche interest among asset owners, asset
managers, banks, brokers and investment consultants. No longer.
Investors now routinely analyse information on ESG performance
alongside other financial and strategic information in order to
gain a better understanding of companies’ future prospects.
Issuers’ ESG performance on subjects such as resource
use, human rights, health and safety, corruption and
transparency is increasingly used to draw conclusions
about the quality of their management, identify their
exposure to business risks and assess their ability to
leverage business opportunities. Therefore it is becoming
more and more important for companies and other
issuers to communicate with investors clearly and
accurately on these aspects of their performance.
The intention of this Guidance is to help companies
gain a clear understanding of what ESG information
they should provide and how they should go about
providing it. This is a task for which London Stock
Exchange Group, as a leading international markets
infrastructure provider connected to issuers, sell side
and investors is ideally placed.
About London Stock
Exchange Group
Sitting at a critical junction between issuers and
investors, London Stock Exchange Group plays an
essential role in supporting global sustainable
economic growth.
With more than 2,700 companies hosted on our
markets, we seek to recognise and encourage dynamic
companies that will drive long-term economic
prosperity; helping them improve the sustainability of
their business and enhance their ability to raise capital
for growth and employment creation. At the same time,
through FTSE Russell, our benchmarking and analytics
business, we seek to support investors in making
informed and sustainable decisions; providing them
with the information and tools they need to assess
issuers’ strategy, performance and governance.
2

Revealing the full picture Towards deeper understanding between issuers
and investors
In publishing this ESG
Reporting Guidance, our aim
is to help enable your company
to effectively navigate the
reporting landscape of today
and tomorrow.
You don’t have to be big
to be an ESG reporter
The ESG dimension is not something only larger
companies need to concern themselves with. When
a small or mid-sized issuer understands the value of
ESG data and reporting, investors’ ability to see the full
picture of its performance and prospects is enhanced
just as much.

London Stock Exchange Group (LSEG) is the global
market of choice for such smaller companies. Over 1,000
of them are quoted on AIM in the UK and Italy; more
than 460 belong to our ELITE programme for dynamic
private companies; and we also enable the issuance
of corporate bonds by smaller companies.
The Guidance is intended to help both companies
that have a long history of ESG reporting and those
that are less experienced in it.
ESG data and information can be provided by a company
to a wide range of stakeholders. This Guidance is
specifically focused on the dialogue and information
flows between issuers and investors.
In dealing with good practice in voluntary reporting
to investors, the Guidance is in line with the UN-backed
Sustainable Stock Exchanges initiative model guidance
for exchanges6
. We believe that it is time to move
beyond the debate around mandatory versus voluntary
reporting. Issuers should now focus on innovation and
relevance in the information they provide to investors
– and ESG is part of that picture.
 “ESG reporting is not just for
larger companies. This is about
all issuers, regardless of size,
reporting relevant and material
information to investors so that
they can make better informed
investment decisions.”
Mark Zinkula
CEO, Legal & General Investment Management
Towards deeper
understanding
between issuers
and investors
4
Revealing the full picture Towards deeper understanding between issuers
and investors
Is ‘ESG’ the same as
‘sustainability’ and
‘corporate responsibility’?
Many companies use ‘sustainability’, ‘corporate
responsibility’ or ‘corporate social responsibility’ to refer
to strategies or programmes related to environmental,
social or governance (ESG) activities. We make no
particular recommendation concerning which term
to use.
For the purpose of this Guidance, LSEG has chosen
to use the term ‘ESG’ as it has become a commonlyused investment term. Other terms for this type
of ESG reporting can include ‘non-financial’ and
‘extra-financial’ reporting.
 “We have a fiduciary duty
towards our members and we
are committed to protecting
retirement savings from any
potential investment risk
within a long-term horizon.
The best way to do this is to
take not only financial and
economic factors but also
ESG performance into
consideration.”
Maurizio Agazzi
Direttore Generale, Fondo Pensione Cometa
5
ESG reporting
priorities
We have identified eight
priorities for ESG reporting.
Strategic
relevance
What is the relevance
of ESG issues to business
strategy and business
models?
Page 8
Global
frameworks
What are the most
important ESG reporting
standards?
Page 22
Investor
materiality
What do investors
mean by materiality?
Page 12
Investment
grade data
What are the essential
characteristics of
ESG data?
Page 18
1 2 3 4
6 Revealing the full picture ESG reporting priorities
Reporting
formats
How should ESG
data be reported?
Page 28
Debt finance
What should debt
issuers report and
what are the emerging
standards here?
Page 40
Regulation
and investor
communication
How can companies
navigate regulations and
communicate effectively?
Green Revenue
reporting
How can issuers get
recognition for green
products and services?
Page 36
5 6 7 8
Page 32
7 Revealing the full picture ESG reporting priorities
01
Revealing the full picture 01. Strategic relevance
Strategic relevance
What is the relevance of ESG
issues to business strategy
and business models?
8
Investors want to
understand how issuers are
responding to long-term and
macroeconomic trends such
as climate, demographic and
technological change as well
as political developments.
A number of the world’s
largest investors are allocating
capital to companies that are
well equipped to benefit from
the transition to the low
carbon economy, and wish to
protect their portfolios against
downside environmental, social
and governance (ESG) risks.
As an issuer, you should explain the relevance of
ESG factors to your business model and strategy. You
should make clear how your company is positioning
itself, either to benefit from these factors or to manage
and mitigate the risks associated with them.
Issuers should also explain how they intend to
access the new opportunities and revenue streams
generated by green and socially beneficial
products and services.
9 Revealing the full picture 01. Strategic relevance
 “Sustainability factors, such as
climate change or demography,
impact companies’ operating
environments. It is therefore
critical that companies provide
a clear strategic view on the
likely impact of such trends
or factors on their business
models. This will allow investors
to understand how they
are positioned, and provide
confidence that they are
resilient and can where possible
exploit opportunities from
a changing environment.”
Steve J. Berexa
Global CIO Equity and Global Head of Research,
Allianz Global Investors
It is important for any company to be able to explain
how its core business models and strategies may be
impacted by ESG trends, and how it is seeking to
position itself either to benefit from them or manage
and mitigate risks associated with them. This provides
the context for ESG reporting and allows investors to
assess how well prepared the company is strategically
for changes in its operating environment.
A number of the world’s largest investors are allocating
additional capital to companies that have higher green
revenue exposure or are better equipped to fulfil
sustainable goals.
Demonstrating resilience as well as readiness to
transition to a sustainable and low carbon economy is
relevant for issuers across a number of industries and
sectors. This means looking beyond the risks to new
opportunities and revenue streams generated by green
and socially beneficial products and services. These
can drive value for the organisation and provide social
and environmental solutions.
Integrating both financial and non-financial
performance requires leadership and support from
the Board and senior management. They play a central
role in integrating sustainability into the business
strategy, overseeing implementation across the
business and communicating to investors. At a working
level in larger companies, investor relations, finance
functions and CSR or sustainability divisions will need
to align to ensure the quality and consistency of
information reported.
10 Revealing the full picture 01. Strategic relevance
11 Revealing the full picture 01. Strategic relevance
LOW CARBON
ECONOMY EXPLAINED
Over the last 300 years there have been a
number of economic cycles as new industries
have emerged and revolutionised economies
both nationally and globally. Previous cycles
have been linked to the introduction of the
steam engine, electricity, mass automation, and
recently information technology and computing.
A number of economists now suggest that we
are rapidly moving into the next cycle of
economic change linked to industrial changes
to overcome climate change, environmental
erosion and resource depletion. The Paris
Agreement that entered into force in November
2016, marked an important turning point.
It aims to ‘keep a global temperature rise this
century well below 2 degrees Celsius above
pre-industrial levels and to pursue efforts to
limit the temperature increase even further
to 1.5 degrees Celsius’. Achieving its goals by
meeting the signatories’ nationally determined
contributions (‘NDCs’) requires the growth of
new products and new ‘green’ industrial sectors
in areas including renewable energy, energy
efficiency, waste processing and recycling. The
low carbon economy encompasses these sectors
and services, and companies that demonstrate
their contribution to the low carbon economy
are attracting investment.
How ESG issues can impact
business models and strategies
The ESG issues and trends that can have a powerful
impact on business models are varied. Some possible
examples include:
— a confectionery company that sources cocoa from
West Africa explaining their readiness for increased
levels of drought;
— an integrated oil and gas business explaining how
carbon costs and changing energy demands linked
to carbon intensity would impact their reserve
portfolio and how future pricing scenarios link into
their exploration and production strategy; and
— a professional services outsourcing firm outlining
the increasing international demand for highly skilled
staff and explaining their approach to motivating,
retaining and developing their workforce in order
to reduce high turnover rates of skilled staff.
12 Revealing the full picture Strategic relevance 02. Investor materiality
02
What do investors
mean by materiality?
Investor materiality
13 Revealing the full picture Revealing the full picture Strategic relevance 02. Investor materiality
To understand a company’s
long-term prospects, investors
will focus on those issues
that they believe to be most
relevant – or ‘material’ – to any
particular business. However,
different investors inevitably
have different views on what
they see as material.
Issuers should explain which ESG issues they see as
most relevant or material to their business. They should
explain how ESG issues may affect their business, e.g.
through legislation, reputational damage, employee
turnover, licence to operate, legal action or stakeholder
relationships. They should then explain how these
impacts may affect business strategy and financial
and operational performance.
When presenting this information to investors, it is
important to understand what information and data
your investors are looking for. This should include
ensuring you are informed about what your industry
peers globally are reporting on.
Revealing the full picture 02. Investor materiality
How to identify
material ESG themes
There is no standard template for a successful
materiality assessment and issuers need to find the
approach that is appropriate for their organisation.
There are a number of considerations that can help
companies identify what is relevant to their business
and what the critical issues are to report on:
 Align with what international standards
recommend and peer companies report. This
facilitates comparability for investors globally.
 Use tools at your disposal. ESG research
and index providers have specific criteria
and identified material themes for different
companies and industrial sectors. FTSE Russell,
a London Stock Exchange Group business, has
a well developed model which may be helpful
in this regard. See more on pages 50 and 51.
 Explicitly link ESG performance, business
strategy and financial and operational
performance.
14
 ‘MATERIALITY’
DEFINED
The International Accounting Standards Board
defines ‘material’ information as that which
could, if omitted or misstated, influence the
economic decisions of readers relying on the
financial statements. The UK FRC’s ‘Clear &
Concise’ guidance to narrative reporting states
that ‘information is material if its omission or
misrepresentation could influence the economic
decisions shareholders take on the basis of the
annual report as a whole’.
Example
Index membership: FTSE 100
ICB subsector: Recreational Services
A FTSE 100 company in the travel and leisure
sector conducts a materiality assessment every
two years. This allows the business to update
its understanding of the issues that influence
stakeholder (including investor) perceptions and
decision-making, and to respond effectively to
sustainability-related opportunities and risks.
Its materiality assessment process involves:
— re-evaluating the previous assessment;
— reviewing relevant standards;
— engaging with internal
and external stakeholders;
— benchmarking the strategy against industry
and broader corporate best-practice; and
— reviewing operational impacts and
sustainability trends.
The full list of issues is plotted on a matrix based
on significance to the business and relative
concern to stakeholders.
Index membership: FTSE Small Cap
ICB subsector: Software
A small-cap software business has a strong
reliance on employees, reflected in its vision:
‘To enable outstanding people to create digital
solutions that have a positive impact on people’s
lives.’ Noting that employee retention is a key
risk, the company includes data on its staff
attrition rate and its ‘Best Companies to Work
For’ rating in its KPIs.
1
2
3
 “One size does not fit all when
it comes to ESG data. Although
there is a need for consistency,
there is also a need to focus on
investor materiality to ensure
that the data being reported
is of relevance to investors.”
James Bevan
CIO, CCLA Investment Management
Revealing the full picture 02. Investor materiality
ESG Rating
FTSE Russell has drawn from global standards and frameworks in the
development of its ESG model. The model involves producing an overall ESG
Rating based on the three pillars of Environment, Social and Governance and
on 14 Themes adapted to reflect their materiality to each company.
Three of the 14 Themes are shown opposite to outline selected examples
of the ESG data – both qualitative and quantitative – that issuers can
be expected to disclose against specific, material themes. For more details
on the methodology please see www.ftserussell.com/esg
Social
Governance
Environmental
& Community
Human rights
Standards
Labour
Responsibility
Customer
Health & Safety
Supply Chain: Social
16–17
Water Use
Climate Change
Biodiversity
Pollution
&
Resources Supply Chain: Environmental
Anti-Corrupt oi n Corporate
G
overnance
Risk
Management
Tax
Transparency
1
3
2
 1. CLIMATE CHANGE
The investment case
Investors often want to understand whether businesses can:
— successfully respond to climate change risks;
— demonstrate future viability and resilience; and
— achieve cost savings through efficiencies and identify opportunities
through low carbon revenue opportunities.
The sources of investment risks
Key sources of investment risk and opportunity:
— regulatory: standards, taxes, carbon pricing;
— market: reduced demand for high-carbon goods, products and services
and decreased capital availability for high carbon products;
— market: increased demand for low-carbon goods, products and services;
— capital: increased capital availability for low-carbon services
and technologies; and
— weather: natural disasters and resource risks.
Example indicators of practice and performance
Type Description Applicability
Quantitative Three years of total energy consumption data All
Quantitative GHG emissions per megawatt-hr Conventional
Electricity
Qualitative Board oversight of climate change:
a. Evidence of board or board committee
oversight of the management of climate
change risks
b. Named position responsible at Board Level
All
 3. HUMAN RIGHTS & COMMUNITY
The investment case
Investors want businesses that:
— engage in active discussion around human rights and community issues;
— demonstrate operational robustness and reputational resilience by
addressing their impact on the communities in which they operate; and
— Have strong and positive relationships with communities.
The sources of investment risks
Key sources of investment risk and opportunity:
— regulatory: costs associated with regulatory compliance;
— market: increased exposure to human rights risks in supply chain;
— reputation: risks caused by community relations and human rights
issues; and
— operations: increased chance of operational shut downs or revocation
of licenses, if the local community resists or protests the presence
of the business.
Example indicators of practice and performance
Type Description Applicability
Qualitative Stakeholder engagement to verify
human rights risks and impacts:
a. Evidence of consultation taking place
b. Documented meetings OR reports
of how results have been used
All
Qualitative How the issuer addresses freedom
of expression through:
a. Having a statement/policy
b. Being a member of a relevant
industry initiative such as the
Global Network Initiative
Broadcasting &
Entertainment, Media
Agencies, Publishing,
Fixed Line Telecommunications, Mobile
Telecommunications,
Computer Services,
Internet, Software
Qualitative Total amount of corporate or group
donations/community investments
made to registered not-for-profit
organisations
All
The ‘Exposure’ factor in
FTSE Russell’s ESG Ratings
The ESG Ratings service operated by FTSE Russell
identifies 14 Themes spread across the three
ESG pillars, most of which include several
relevant quantitative indicators. Its methodology
includes ‘Exposure’, which categorises the
materiality of the 14 Themes for a particular
company as High, Medium, Low or Not
Applicable. Based on a matrix, this categorisation
considers business involvement across different
countries and sectors; utilises a variety of robust,
globally-accepted frameworks; and can help
issuers discern which ESG Themes they are
exposed to, and how to begin reporting on them.
This can form a starting point for the potential
ESG themes an investor may regard as
material for a company.
 2. TAX TRANSPARENCY
The investment case
Investors often want to understand whether businesses can:
— not only comply with tax arrangements, but also have a strong governance
process and transparency around their tax policy and tax arrangements; and
— demonstrate commitment to transparency by engaging with stakeholders
and the public to communicate their contribution to local economies.
The sources of investment risks
Key sources of investment risk and opportunity:
— regulatory: risks of increased regulation which could close particular tax
arrangements, referred to by some as ‘loopholes’ which would mean reduced
margins and profitability of particular companies. In some cases it may
even affect a company’s ability to operate in certain markets; and
— reputational: increased scrutiny of corporate tax behaviour.
Example indicators of practice and performance
Type Description Applicability
Qualitative A policy OR commitment to:
a. Tax transparency or tax responsibility
b. Align tax payments with revenue-generating
activity, or reduce or refrain from the use
of offshore secrecy jurisdictions for the
purposes of tax planning
All
Qualitative Board has oversight of tax policy:
a. Evidence of board oversight of the
management of tax risks
b. Named position responsible at Board level
All
Quantitative Disclosure of corporation tax paid globally:
a. With at least domestic and
international breakdown
b. With country by country breakdown
All

Revealing the full picture 03. Investment grade data
03
Investment
grade data
What are the essential
characteristics of ESG data?
18
19 Revealing the full picture 03. Investment grade data
When using ESG data to
inform capital allocation and
investment decision-making,
investors want ESG information
to be complete, consistent,
reliable, comparable and clear.
Issuers should ensure that the data they provide
is accurate, timely, aligned with the issuer’s fiscal year
and business ownership model (i.e. aligned boundaries),
and based on consistent global standards to facilitate
comparability.
Raw as well as normalised data should be provided,
and your company should offer a balanced view that
highlights both positives and negatives in its
performance.
To provide investors with a greater degree of confidence
in their reported data, some issuers choose to have
their ESG data assured.
Revealing the full picture 03. Investment grade data
Characteristics of investment grade data
Accuracy: deploy rigorous data collection systems
Boundaries: align to the fiscal year and business
ownership model
Comparability and consistency: use consistent
global standards to facilitate comparability
Data provision: provide raw as well as normalised data
Timeliness: provide data to coincide with the annual
reporting cycle
External assurance: consider strengthening
the credibility of data by having it assured
Balance: provide an objective view, including both
favourable and unfavourable information
Accuracy
As an issuer, you should have rigorous data collection
systems and processes for ESG. When preparing data
collection, you should pay particular attention to:
— Internal systems: assess the ability of existing
systems (for example internal audit and risk and
data control verification systems) to support
data collection;
— Internal assurance: establish strong internal
assurance processes, including having these
overseen by or under the governance of the board
audit committee;
— Data quality: ensure that the quality of the
data collected and reported is understood and
documented. Issuers should collate information on
how the data was compiled, what assumptions were
made, and whether any uncertainties or limitations
apply to the data. Data sources must be appropriate,
reliable and evidenced. Any data challenges should
be identified and the implications assessed;
— Data reliability: this should be tested through
internal reviews and conducted by internal audit.
Issuers can also consider engaging third-party
assurance providers; and
— Assumptions: report key assumptions that
underpin reporting.
Boundaries
Issuers need to take account of two distinct sets
of boundaries: timeframes and operations.
— Timeframes: ESG data should match your fiscal
year and hence match the time period for the annual
report. This allows investors to cross-use the two
different data sets, for example normalising certain
ESG data by revenues or staff numbers.
— Operations: ESG data should cover 100% of the issuing
entity and employ the same principles as financial
data. If your company has partial ownership of certain
subsidiaries (perhaps without operational control),
the data should be reported on a percentage ownership
basis in order to accurately reflect the proportional
exposure the company has to these businesses, unless
national reporting rules have different requirements.
In situations where parts of the business were acquired
or sold during the reporting period, data should be
provided on both a consolidated and separate basis.
Comparability and consistency
In order to allow comparability between peers, it is
important to use consistent global standards when
reporting. Issuers should use indicators and metrics that
are widely used within their sector, aiming to gather data
in line with common practice and to report in a similar
manner to sector peers. Issuers should consider using
standard denominators when normalising data.
The methods used to collect and calculate data should
remain consistent year-on-year. If data compilation
methodologies or underlying assumptions change,
issuers need to explain the changes that have been
made. Where these changes have had a significant effect
on results, data for previous years should be recalculated
using the new methodology or assumptions to
enable comparison.
Data provision
Generally, investors will prefer to normalise ESG
data themselves so that they can apply their models
consistently across companies. They therefore expect
issuers to provide raw as well as normalised data.
However, issuers should be aware of ways they can
support investors in using and interpreting the results:
— Contextual data: investors are interested in putting
data into context. Companies can help by providing,
in a readily accessible manner, measures of
financial activity such as turnover, the countries and
markets in which they operate, the number of staff
and contractors and, where relevant, the quantity,
weight or volume of product outputs;
— Normalised data: interpretation of progress
around targets that are set on a normalised basis
can be useful for investors. This should be provided
alongside – not instead of – raw data; and
— Explanation: issuers should supplement
quantitative data with narrative explaining the
factors that have influenced performance, whether
positively or negatively. Further, where there are
core business differences or client segments that
explain performance relative to peers, these
should also be explained.
20
Revealing the full picture 03. Investment grade data
Timeliness
It is best practice to provide ESG data at the same
time as the annual report and accounts are published,
or as soon as possible afterwards.
A company may need to communicate sooner when
a significant incident or controversy has taken place, or
has been alleged. In these situations, investors do not
expect to wait for the next annual reporting cycle.
External assurance
As an issuer you may seek to strengthen the credibility
of your ESG data through external assurance. This can
be conducted through the same processes as financial
reporting, using qualified auditors. We recommend
that the levels, scope and process adopted for external
assurance are clearly described in the report.
Balance
Issuers should provide an objective picture of
their performance, presenting both favourable and
unfavourable information clearly and in full to aid
the reader’s understanding. Efforts to avoid or obscure
certain information or aspects of performance will
inevitably lead to questions from investors and may
create an environment of mistrust.
Data on more difficult subjects should be set
out alongside explanations and commentary. Where
influenced by unfavourable occurrences or market
conditions, a full explanation detailing organisational
learning and changes resulting from the experience
will reassure investors.
 “We are active users of ESG
data in our investment process.
The quality of data provided
by issuers has improved and
we would like to see momentum
continue and build. ESG data
influences how we invest.
We therefore need companies
to report on ESG with the same
level of diligence, controls and
precision as they do for the data
provided in their annual report
and accounts.”
Trevor Green
Head of UK Equities, Aviva Investors
21
INVESTMENT
GRADE DATA FOR
SMALLER ISSUERS
The importance of providing investors with
investment grade data applies to smaller issuers
too, as the quality of this information informs
investment decision-making.
Smaller issuers should aim to follow the seven
criteria described in this chapter, taking a
pragmatic approach where necessary. For example,
ESG data collection systems and processes may
be inadequate at first; however, it is better to start
reporting and to improve systems over time
than not to report at all.
Example
Index membership: FTSE 100
ICB subsector: Industrial & Office REITs
A FTSE 100 Real Estate Investment Trust (REIT)
reports its ESG performance data online, and
through its annual reporting. The business’
sustainability strategy prioritises job creation,
efficient use of natural resources and sustainable
design, and its data disclosure aligns with these
focus areas, offering highlights, raw numbers
and discussion around performance.
As environment and energy data is considered to
be of particular importance, the business reports
against frameworks published by the Climate
Disclosure Standards Board (CDSB) and the
European Public Real Estate Association (EPRA).
These standards commit them to reporting
emissions both in absolute terms and in a format
that enables investors to compare their data
with others in the sector.
The company also provides a dedicated PDF
presenting its environmental and energy data
on an absolute and like-for-like portfolio basis for
its properties, with comparisons to previous years.
They also offer an energy reporting methodology
document that explains their approach,
boundaries, scope, reporting period, targets
and measures. This data is also included in the
‘Business Analysis’ section of their annual report,
with accompanying discussion and trend data.
22 Revealing the full picture 04. Global frameworks
04
Global frameworks
What are the most important
ESG reporting standards?
23 Revealing the full picture 04. Global frameworks
To anyone unfamiliar with
ESG reporting, the volume of
standards, frameworks and
data requirements can seem
overwhelming. Even for more
experienced issuers, it can
be a challenge to identify
the indicators and standards
which are most relevant to
their investors.
While we are some way from a global consensus
on reporting standards, the frameworks developed by
the following organisations (in no specified order) are
the ones most widely cited by investors: the Global
Reporting Initiative (GRI), the International Integrated
Reporting Council (IIRC), the Sustainability Accounting
Standards Board (SASB), the UN Global Compact, the
CDP (formerly the Carbon Disclosure Project), the
Climate Disclosure Standards Board, and the FSB Task
Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures.
FTSE Russell has consolidated indicators from
different global standards and developed an Exposure
framework. This identifies indicator applicability
for different types of company based on industrial
and geographic presence.
Revealing the full picture 04. Global frameworks
Despite the improvements in the quality and quantity
of ESG data being provided by companies, this data
continues to be regarded as difficult to compare. We are
in the middle stage of global standardisation, with many
organisations – standard setters, issuers, investors –
defining what it is they need from ESG data, how this
data is to be used, how its quality is to be assured,
and how it is to be presented or reported.
Progress on standardisation will help to move
sustainability into the mainstream dialogue between
issuers and investors. Increasing use of global standards
and frameworks by companies has a key role to play
in making information more available, consistent and
reliable. For example, according to KPMG’s 2015 Survey
of Corporate Responsibility Reporting, 61% of European
corporate responsibility reporters used the GRI
framework7
. Furthermore, 93% of FTSE 100, 64% of the
FTSE 350 and 45% of the top 100 on Borsa Italiana
reported to CDP on climate change8
.
24
The leading global
ESG frameworks
CDP (formerly the Carbon Disclosure Project)
CDP collects standardised information from
companies on climate change and the use
of natural resources such as water and
soft commodities.
www.cdp.net
Climate Disclosure Standards Board (CDSB)
The CDSB Framework helps companies explain
how environmental matters affect their
performance and show how they are addressing
associated risks and opportunities to investors
in annual or integrated reports.
www.cdsb.net
Global Reporting Initiative (GRI)
GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards are
the most widely used standards for reporting on
ESG impacts globally, and have been developed
over many years through multi-stakeholder
contributions. GRI Standards aim to meet the
information needs of all stakeholders, and the
modular structure supports both comprehensive
reports and selected disclosures.
www.globalreporting.org
Integrated reporting
The Integrated Reporting Framework helps
companies to produce a concise, investor-focused
report that looks at an issuer’s performance
and prospects through the lens of six ‘capitals’
(financial, manufactured, human, natural,
intellectual, social and relationship).
www.integratedreporting.org
Sustainability Accounting
Standards Board (SASB)
SASB issues sustainability accounting standards
that help public corporations disclose material
and decision-useful information to investors in
their mandatory filings, based on their industry, in
line with the notion that under existing regulation
material information should be disclosed in the
Forms 10-K or 20-F.
www.sasb.org
UN Global Compact (UNGC)
The Global Compact requires companies
to commit to a set of ten universal principles
concerning human rights, labour, environment
and anti-corruption.
www.unglobalcompact.org
 61%
of European sustainability
reporters use GRI
 “Consistent global
frameworks provide an
essential tool to allow
investors to analyse and
compare ESG risks across
companies and sectors.”
Rod Paris
CIO, Standard Life Investments
Example
Index membership: FTSE MIB
ICB subsector: Utilities
A utility group operating in Europe and Latin
America has significant exposure to stakeholders
whose support is critical to its license to operate.
The company addresses this challenge by
clearly identifying and disclosing both the
most significant ESG issues and its stakeholder
engagement process, and by rigorously
organising its sustainability report around the ESG
issues thus identified. The company’s progress
on its sustainability plan is mapped against the
Sustainable Development Goals throughout the
report. The report is prepared in compliance with
GRI G4 guidelines (“in accordance – core option”),
with references to this standard clearly guiding
the reader through the various sections. ESG
information is externally verified through limited
assurance by independent auditors.
26 Revealing the full picture 04. Global frameworks
The UN Sustainable
Development Goals
The 17 Sustainable Development Goals – and 169
associated targets – were adopted by the General
Assembly of the United Nations in September 2015
to inform a global action plan on ‘people, planet and
prosperity’ through to 2030. The value of the framework
that the SDGs set out lies in its universality and bottomup nature, reflecting the fact that it stems from an
agreement reached after a long process of international
negotiations and consultations involving governments,
businesses and civil society.
The 17 SDGs can provide a useful and internationally
recognised framework to shape and prioritise business
plans and associated reporting. They are consistent
with a number of the leading global ESG reporting
frameworks9
 and are reflected in a growing number
of ESG assessment frameworks including FTSE Russell’s
ESG Ratings Model. Measuring progress against relevant
sustainable development goals and targets enables
the harmonisation and comparability of sustainability
investments and actions on a global scale.
A summary of the SDG framework is presented
graphically. For more information, please visit the
UN Sustainable Development Knowledge Platform
at https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org
The Financial Stability Board
Task Force on Climate-related
Financial Disclosures
Background
In December 2016 the Financial Stability Board Task
Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD)
published its recommendations. This initiative was
set up following a request from the G20 in order
to avoid potential negative impacts on the stability
of financial markets.
The rationale for this was that appropriate disclosures
were needed for financial firms to manage and price
climate risks and to take lending, investment or
insurance underwriting decisions based on their view
of low carbon transition scenarios. Effective disclosure of
climate-related financial risks will help avoid an abrupt
repricing of risk and impacts on market stability.
The task force has developed a set of recommendations
for consultation that aim to support consistent,
comparable, reliable, clear and efficient climate-related
disclosures by financial and non-financial companies.
The task force’s recommendations very closely align
New contributions
to global standards
Among the frameworks which are likely to define the
next decades of global reporting and disclosure are:
— the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs)
specified in the UN’s ‘2030 Agenda for Sustainable
Development’; and
— the recommendations of the Financial Stability
Board’s Task Force on Climate-Related Financial
Disclosures.
Although coming from very different directions and
starting points, both initiatives could play a significant
role in the global harmonisation of ESG measurement
to the benefit of both issuers and investors.
27 Revealing the full picture 04. Global frameworks
with our Guidance for ESG Reporting although the scope
of our guidance is more broadly applicable across all ESG
Themes. Whilst the TCFD is focused on material risks and
opportunities from climate change and the transition
to a low carbon economy many of its principles are
applicable to other sustainability themes too.
Recommendations
The task force recommends that climate-related
financial disclosures should be made in public financial
filings such as annual reports. They believe that
since climate change often poses material risks their
framework provides a useful basis for complying
with legal obligations in many jurisdictions, for listed
companies to disclose material risks. To ensure robust
information the task force recommends governance
controls such as review by Chief Financial Officers and
audit committees. The task force recommendations set
out ‘Principles for Effective Disclosures’ which closely
align with those set out here in Chapter 03, Investment
Grade Data.
The more specific disclosures that are recommended
fall into four categories; Governance, Strategy, Risk
Management and Metrics & Targets. The task force
high level specific disclosure recommendations
are summarised in the table above across all four
of these categories.
These disclosures above are relevant across all
industrial sectors. The task force has also developed
much more sector-specific guidance set out for the
following industries and groups:
— Financials: Banks, Insurance Companies,
Asset Owners, Asset Managers; and
— Non-Financials: Energy, Transportation,
Materials and Buildings, and Agriculture,
Food and Forest Products.
The task force also places some importance on scenario
analysis and has published a technical supplement
setting out the use of scenario analysis, related
considerations, analytical choices, climate-related
scenarios and use of leading public climate scenarios.
LSEG welcomes the TCFD recommendations
London Stock Exchange Group welcomes these
recommendations and sees them as an important step
in driving improved global consistency in voluntary global
reporting standards. Please review the full guidance
on www.fsb-tcfd.org
The recommendations have many implications for
our business: for our own reporting as a listed company,
for our work with issuers including this Guidance, and
for our information services to investors, including
benchmarks. LSEG and FTSE Russell, in particular, intend
to play a critical role enabling the flow of information
envisioned by the TCFD. FTSE Russell’s Climate Change
Criteria (which form part of the ESG Model) in many
cases map to the recommended disclosures, and as an
immediate step, FTSE Russell is reviewing them closely
to identify new indicators and to align existing ones.
The TCFD also cover disclosure of opportunities related
to low carbon products. This supports FTSE Russell’s
Green Revenues Low Carbon Economy (LCE) data model
and aligns with Chapter 07 of this Guidance. LSEG is
also well positioned to support and facilitate the further
refinement of metrics through collaboration with issuers
and investors, and looks forward to exploring with the
TCFD how to support this important work.
TCFD recommendations and supporting recommended disclosures
Governance Strategy Risk management Metrics and targets
Disclose the organisation’s
governance around climaterelated risks and opportunities
Disclose the actual and potential
impacts of climate-related
risks and opportunities on
the organisation’s businesses,
strategy and financial planning
Disclose how the organisation
identifies, assesses and manages
climate-related risks
Disclose the metrics and targets
used to assess and manage
relevant climate-related risks
and opportunities
Recommended disclosures
a. Describe the board’s oversight
of climate-related risks and
opportunities
b. Describe the management’s
role in assessing and
managing climate-related
risks and opportunities
Recommended disclosures
a. Describe the climate-related
risks and opportunities the
organisation has identified
over the short, medium
and long term
b. Describe the impact of
climate-related risks and
opportunities on the
organisation’s businesses,
strategy and financial planning
c. Describe the potential
impact of different scenarios,
including a 2°C scenario, on
the organisation’s businesses,
strategy and financial planning
Recommended disclosures
a. Describe the organisation’s
processes for identifying and
assessing climate-related risks
b. Describe the organisation’s
processes for managing
climate-related risks
c. Describe how processes
for identifying, assessing and
managing climate-related
risks are integrated into
the organisation’s overall
risk management
Recommended disclosures
a. Disclose the metrics used
by the organisation to assess
climate-related risks and
opportunities in line with its
strategy and risk management
process
b. Disclose Scope 1, Scope 2,
and if appropriate, Scope 3
greenhouse gas (GHG)
emissions, and the related risks
c. Describe the targets used by
the organisation to manage
climate-related risks and
opportunities and performance
against targets
This information
is based on the TCFD
recommendations
for consultation that
were published in
December 2016. The
final recommendations
are expected to be
published in June 2017.
28 Revealing the full picture 05. Reporting formats
05
Reporting formats
How should ESG data be reported?
29 Revealing the full picture 05. Reporting formats
Companies can report ESG
information in their annual
report, in a standalone
sustainability report or in an
integrated report. The choice of
reporting formats may involve
trade-offs between breadth
and depth, between focusing
on material issues and covering
a wider horizon that addresses
the relationship between ESG
and business strategy. It is
often unclear which of these
is most useful to investors.
Issuers can take practical steps to ensure that their ESG
disclosures are relevant to their investors. You can ensure
that your reported data is of investment-grade quality,
set out your views on materiality, and explain the
strategic relevance of these ESG issues to your business.
There are different advantages to each type of reporting,
and each issuer should consider which approach will best
suit their own needs and those of their investors.
Remember that reporting is just one part of the wider
dialogue you have with your investors. You should
see ESG reporting, irrespective of the specific format,
as providing a basis for dialogue with your investors,
not as a replacement for this dialogue.
Revealing the full picture 05. Reporting formats
Annual report, standalone
sustainability report,
or integrated report?
Annual report
It is increasingly common for larger listed companies
to include explicit references to ESG themes within
their annual reports.
The integration of ESG issues into annual reports
allows the process of gathering and verifying this data
to be integrated into the processes and information
controls that are already in place. It also means that
ESG data is readily available to investors at the same
time as wider information about the company.
In practice, due to concerns about length and
complexity, companies tend to discuss relatively
few ESG issues in their annual reports. In addition,
ESG-related content may not fit the flow and structure
of the annual report. These issues can be addressed by
publishing methodologies, policies and historical data
online, leaving just the key information pertaining
to the previous year and to future strategies, plans
and targets in the annual report.
Standalone sustainability report
Introducing a standalone sustainability or CSR report
is an approach favoured by many issuers. In 2015,
726 non-financial reports were published in the UK
and 309 in Italy10.
These reports provide a clear ‘home’ for ESG content,
consolidating the information in a single location.
In addition, a standalone sustainability report does not
necessarily need to align with the style of the annual
report; issuers can adopt a style of presentation for raw
data, tables and charts best suited to ESG information.
The separation can imply that sustainability information
is considered separate from the core business of the
company. This can be addressed by aligning key areas of
the annual report and sustainability report. For example,
if a performance trend or external driver is highlighted
in the annual report, it should also be addressed in
the standalone sustainability report.
Integrated report
The concept of an integrated report is that ESG
information and data are presented in an integrated
manner within the annual report. This model has been
promoted by the International Integrated Reporting
Council (IIRC) and aims to offer investors a more
rounded, concise and holistic insight into business
performance and impact over the short, medium
and long term.
Integrated reporters should beware of the implications
of reducing the information made available to
investors. Although brevity is welcomed by many
investors and enables a focus on the most business
critical ESG areas, it may mean that investors do not
get the breadth of information they need. Investors
are diverse and have different ESG needs. Some of
them review published reports directly, whereas
others access company information (including within
analytics, research tools and indexes) through third
party data and research providers and index providers.
This means that data needs to be easily collectable
by these intermediaries – and as a result, integrated
reporting should be supplemented by additional,
more detailed ESG information delivered via the
company’s website or through associated published
data appendices.
30
THE DIFFERENT
FORMS OF ‘CAPITAL’
Capitals (also referred to as ‘resources and
relationships’) are stocks of value or assets that
can be enhanced, or diminished, by the activities
of a business. The International Integrated
Reporting Council lists six capitals in its
framework:
— Financial: internal and external funds
available to a business;
— Manufactured: for example, buildings,
equipment and infrastructure;
— Intellectual: knowledge-based intangibles,
for example brands and patents;
— Human: people and their capabilities
and experience;
— Social and relationship: stakeholder
and network relationships; and
— Natural: environmental resources, such as air,
water and land.
An end to survey fatigue
Publishing well considered reports that provide high
quality ESG information and data, and placing other
relevant information such as policies online, will make
it increasingly feasible for you to point those requesting
responses to ESG surveys towards your published
materials instead.
Optimising communication
There are a number of steps that you can take to
ensure your report is of the greatest possible value
to investors:
 Separate out policies,
processes and methodologies
– Annual or sustainability reports featuring
large amounts of detail around policies and
methodologies can obscure new information
and key messages; and
– Incorporate standing information (‘boilerplate’)
repeated every year in an appendix or separate
document, and signpost it from the report.
Make it easy to find and access
– Ensure that the report is prominent. Promote
it on the corporate website, including the
investor relations section, include a link within
news releases to the markets and summarise
findings in investor presentations; and
– Provide data in spreadsheet format, hyperlink
to corresponding financial statements, or further
ESG information if producing a report online.
Data can also be tagged in XBRL, so that it can
more easily be pulled out and aggregated by
specialist applications. XBRL is a type of
extensible markup language used for organising
and defining financial data in a standardised
way, applying tags to unify and compare
different accounting standards.
Consider language
– Ensure the language used, and its accessibility,
meet the needs of your investor base.
 Combine data tables and
include historical information
– Retain three to five years’ worth of historical
information and data. Where there are significant
corporate changes such as acquisitions and
de-mergers, the reports and information
pertaining to the previous entities should
also be retained wherever possible.
31 Revealing the full picture 05. Reporting formats
Reporting as a complement
to dialogue
Reports enable public distribution of ESG information
concurrently to all existing and prospective investors.
This can complement direct dialogue with investors and
also provide a basis for such dialogue – something which
can in turn help shape and determine the content of
future reports. In other words, high quality reporting
should support deeper and more effective direct dialogue
with the investor community, not replace it.
1
2
3
4
Example
Index membership: FTSE Italia Small Cap
ICB subsector: Industrial Goods & Services
A mid-cap manufacturer of components for
household appliances listed on Borsa Italiana’s
premium segment STAR has adopted the IIRC’s
reporting format for its annual report, published
both in Italian and English. The business
strategy is broken down into the forms of
capital suggested by the Integrated Reporting
Framework. It also adopts GRI standards for
materiality analysis and KPI disclosure with
three year data series provided for each KPI.
The intellectual capital section includes detailed
research and development indicators, in line with
the emphasis placed on innovation and intangible
assets described in the company’s business
model. The governance section is also well
developed to meet STAR investors’ expectations
of a strong sustainability dimension.
32 Revealing the full picture 06. Regulation and investor communication
06
Regulation
and investor
communication
How can companies navigate
regulations and communicate
effectively?
33 Revealing the full picture 06. Regulation and investor communication
The volume of regulation
concerning ESG reporting
has increased substantially
in recent years. If regulators
in different countries and
regions set different reporting
requirements and standards,
this can be problematic for
both issuers and investors.
As a result of this level of activity in ESG reporting,
over 80% of the world’s top economies by GDP in 2016
mandated ESG reporting in some form10. Well-crafted
disclosure regulation can aid issuers and investors by
improving data consistency, availability and reliability,
and by helping focus attention on key ESG issues.
Issuers should see regulation as a starting point
for reporting. However, rather than taking a minimum
compliance approach, you should use regulatory
requirements as an opportunity to develop an investorfocused approach to reporting. It is important that,
as an integral part of the reporting you’re required
to produce, you identify and report on what you
see as your most material issues.
Revealing the full picture 06. Regulation and investor communication
Governments around the world, responding chiefly
to broader societal awareness around sustainability,
have introduced a number of mandatory reporting
instruments. In just three years, over 100 new mandatory
instruments have been introduced across 64 countries11.
As a result of this level of activity in ESG reporting,
over 80% of the world’s top economies by GDP in 2016
mandated ESG reporting in some form11.
However, this can often mean that companies will face
differing requirements, while investors will be unable
to compare data on companies globally.
Reporting standards are still evolving and whilst issuers
need to report in a way that is consistent with regulatory
reporting requirements, they can also innovate and
should aim to report in a manner that is most useful
to investors. This can sometimes mean going above
and beyond regulation.
UK and Italian regulation
The 2015 update of the Italian Corporate Governance
Code, which is applied on a comply-or-explain basis,
recommends that the boards of listed companies
should take into account any risk that may affect the
sustainability of the business in the medium-long term
when assessing the company’s risk profile. In addition,
the Code recommends that the largest companies,
namely the constituents of the FTSE-Mib index, should
consider whether or not to set up a board committee
tasked with supervising sustainability issues related
to the company’s business.
The UK governance and reporting framework12
encourages reporting of ESG and non-financial matters
through the Guidance on the Strategic Report and
Corporate Governance Code requirements for disclosure
of principal risks and uncertainties and a viability
statement. The 2013 updates to the UK Companies
Act 2006 included a number of ESG reporting provisions.
UK incorporated quoted companies i.e. those with equity
shares listed on London Stock Exchange Main Market,
EEA regulated, NYSE or NASDAQ, are expected to explain
how they are managing issues such as environmental
performance, human rights, social and community
involvement and diversity. They are also expected to
report on certain statistics, for example Scope13 1 and
2 CO2 emissions and gender diversity at Board, senior
management and whole-company levels.
Requirements differ for companies of different sizes
and listed status. For example while all companies are
expected to disclose principal business risks, mediumsized companies are not expected to include an
analysis of non-financial KPIs. Furthermore, only listed
companies are required to contain an overview of the
business strategy and model as well as environment,
employee, social, community, human rights and
diversity information in the strategic report.
EU regulation: the NonFinancial Reporting Directive
The aim of the EU non-Financial Reporting Directive
(NFRD) is to establish a minimum standard for ESG
reporting across the EU. The Directive requires the largest
companies to report on environmental matters, social
and employee affairs, human rights and anti-corruption
and bribery issues. National governments transposed
the Directive into national law in 2016.
The UK’s implementation of the EU Non-Financial
Reporting Directive builds on earlier provisions to
require companies and groups with over 500 employees
that are classed as public interest entities (i.e. entities
whose activities are of significant interest to the public,
and include banks, insurers and quoted companies) to
disclose a fuller range of non-financial information in
their strategic reports. This requires eligible companies
to disclose information on environmental, employee,
social and human rights. The framework also requires
disclosures on anti-corruption and anti-bribery matters.
There is a further requirement for quoted companies to
include a description of their diversity policy and how
it has been implemented or to explain why one is
not relevant.
If the company does not have a policy in relation
to any of these matters the company should provide
a clear and reasoned explanation as to why it would
not be relevant. The first reports under the new
requirements should be published in 2018, for financial
years commencing in 2017. There is flexibility on
how to report and companies can draw on relevant
international, European or national guidelines.
The Italian transposition of the Directive in addition
requires issuers to adopt global standards wherever
possible, or to explain why the company decided to
develop its own disclosure approach. Disclosure has
also to cover a minimum set of parameters, including
energy use from renewable and non-renewable sources,
impact on health and safety, and measures aimed at
implementing international gender diversity frameworks.
The non-financial statement can be part of the annual
report, or be a separate document, and it has to be
externally verified either by the company’s legal
auditors or by an auditing firm specially appointed.
The statement has to be submitted to the Italian capital
markets authority Consob, who is also in charge of
monitoring compliance.
34
 100+
mandatory
reporting
instruments have
been introduced
across 64
countries10
Revealing the full picture 06. Regulation and investor communication
Key ESG reporting regulations: Italy, the UK and the EU14
Country Institution Year Title Type Status Commentary
Italy Market
Participants
Associations &
Borsa Italiana
2015 Italian Corporate
Governance Code
Non-Government
Suggested
Corporate
Governance
Disclosure,
Voluntary
Issued The Italian Corporate Governance
Committee included ESG risks and
governance considerations in its
review of the Code issued in July 2015.
Italian
Government
2007 Legislative decree
No.32/2007
transposing directive
2003/51/CE and
Article 2428 of the
Italian Civil Code
Government
Imposed Corporate
Environmental
Disclosure,
Mandatory
Issued States that directors’ reports should
include financial and non-financial
key performance indicators relevant to
the specific business of the company,
including information relating to
environmental matters.
UK FRC 1992, most
recently
updated
in 2016
UK Corporate
Governance Code
Industry Body
Led Corporate
Governance
Disclosure,
‘comply or explain’
Issued For Premium companies listed on
the Main Market, the code sets out
standards of good practice in relation
to board leadership and effectiveness,
remuneration, accountability and
relations with shareholders, on a
comply-or-explain basis.
UK Government 2015 Modern Slavery Act Government
Imposed Corporate
Environmental
Disclosure,
Mandatory
Issued Section 54 of the Modern Slavery Act
2015 requires certain organisations
to develop a slavery and human
trafficking statement each year.
UK Government 2006,
revised
2013
Changes to the
Companies Act 2006
(Strategic Report
and Director’s
Report) 2013
Government
Imposed Corporate
Environmental
Disclosure,
Mandatory
Issued Carbon emissions, human rights and
diversity reporting required by all listed
companies in the Director’s Report.
All EU
member
states
National
governments
2016 Transposition of the
EU Non-Financial
Reporting Directive
95/14
Government
Imposed Corporate
Environmental
Disclosure,
Mandatory
Issued Applies from January 2017 to all listed
companies with more than 500
employees, and mandates disclosure
of environmental, social (including
diversity and human rights) and
anti-corruption issues.
— Transposed in the UK through the
Companies, Partnerships and Groups
(Accounts and Non-Financial
Reporting) Regulations 2016 n. 1245
— Transposed in Italy through
Legislative Decree 30 December
2016 n. 245
35
Getting value from regulation
Rather than taking a minimum-compliance approach,
issuers should use the regulatory requirements as an
opportunity to enhance their reporting to investors.
It is critical to move beyond the areas covered in
regulation and towards identifying your business’s most
material ESG themes and the underlying indicators
based on global standards. Only then will you be able to
produce ESG reporting that aligns closely with your own
material issues, and that enables a richer data flow
and dialogue with investors to take place.
Going forward, we may see the financial community
sharing the responsibility of disclosing alignment with
ESG considerations. Article 173 of France’s Energy
Transition for Green Growth Law which came into effect
in early 2016 requires investors to outline how they
factor ESG criteria into their investment decisions. As
this effectively forces ESG engagement and integration
from both sides, it adds still more momentum to the
drive for consistency, standardisation and recognition
of the global context influencing reporting.
36 Revealing the full picture 07. Green Revenue reporting
07
Green Revenue
reporting
How can issuers get recognition
for green products and services?
37 Revealing the full picture 07. Green Revenue reporting
Around the world, investors
want to understand issuers’
exposure to green products
and services. However, there is
limited consistent information
available on how issuers are
deriving revenue and growth
from providing environmental
solutions.
As an issuer you should proactively communicate
your exposure to the green products and services that
enable the transition to the low carbon economy. To
do this, you need to identify the parts of your business
that manufacture or provide goods, products and
services delivering environmental solutions, quantify
the associated revenues, and talk about how your
investments in innovation and R&D will drive your
business’s future growth.
38 Revealing the full picture 07. Green Revenue reporting
Climate risk and rewards
Investors need to understand how companies in their
portfolios are changing their exposure to low carbon
economy subsectors and therefore need issuers to
provide more detailed revenue breakdown, at a green
sub-segment level, to measure this. Some of the world’s
largest investors are actively allocating additional
capital to companies with higher green revenue
exposure; so better reporting can directly lead to greater
investment flows. This requires you as an issuer to:
 Understand opportunities in the
transition to a low carbon economy
 Identify parts of the business that manufacture
or provide goods, products and services driving
value for the business and delivering
environmental solutions.
Identify green revenues
 Provide details of the revenues resulting
from ‘green’ goods, products and services.
Connect to your own climate impacts
 Ensure that reporting on green revenues is
integrated with both wider financial reporting
and with carbon strategy, emissions data
and performance reporting.
Talk about where the future lies
 Discuss how investment in innovation and
R&D will support the transition to a low
carbon economy.
Green Revenues Low
Carbon Economy (LCE)
data model
FTSE Russell’s Green Revenues Low Carbon
Economy (LCE) data model measures the green
revenues of over 13,000 public companies
globally across 60 subsectors; from advanced
battery and solar panel manufacture to flood
defence construction. For the full list of
subsectors, see Appendix ii.
Example
Index membership: FTSE 100
ICB subsector: Speciality Chemicals
A UK chemicals company breaks its revenues
into specific sub-segments, enabling investors to
understand precisely how much of those revenues
make a contribution to the low carbon economy.
For example, it has a segment named ‘Precious
Metal Products’, which it breaks down into two
sub-segments, ‘Recycling’ (revenue gained from
providing recycling services) and ‘Other activities’
(revenue gained from refining and developing
paint coats and other products). This allows
investors to see that the recycling segment
contributes to the low carbon economy, whereas
the ‘Other activities’ do not. Each of these
sub-segments is furnished with a separate
published calculation sheet.
Index membership: FTSE 100
ICB subsector: Fixed Line Telecommuniactions
A FTSE 100 telecommunications company has
reported its aim as being to ‘have helped our
customers cut their carbon emissions by at least
three times our own end-to-end carbon impact’ by
2020. This 3:1 ambition is based on the company’s
products and services having a carbon abatement
effect at least three times the impact of its own
emissions (Scope 1, 2 and 313).
By quantifying and reporting the abatement
affects of products such as video-conferencing
and cloud computing services, the business
demonstrates how it is not only prepared for the
transition to the low carbon economy but will
benefit directly as a result.
1
2
3
4
 “Certain segments of global
markets will undergo significant
change as the world moves towards
a low carbon economy. Companies
that offer comprehensive reports
on the environmental solutions
they provide, send a strong signal
to capital markets that they are
aware of the business opportunities
that come with long term trends
like the transition to a low carbon
economy. Companies disclosing
their ‘green revenues’ can benefit
through greater investment from
funds such as ours.”
Maurice Versaevel
Investment Strategist, PGGM
RENEWABLE FUNDS
An emerging asset class associated with the
transition to a low carbon economy is represented
by renewable infrastructure funds. Renewable
infrastructure funds listed on London Stock
Exchange are worth a combined £3.4bn and
have raised £2.7bn since 2013. For investors to
be able to report on the impact of these funds on
the exposure of their portfolios to the low carbon
economy, clarity and details regarding the type
of assets these funds are invested in are extremely
useful. These could include the renewable energy
generation capacity and the equivalent estimated
GHG emissions avoided through the infrastructure
projects that are financed or in which the funds
are invested.

46 Revealing the full picture Summary
Summary
 As the most important part of the above, identify
the parts of the business that manufacture or
provide goods, products and services delivering
environmental solutions and supporting the
transition to a low carbon economy; and break
down and quantify the associated revenues.
 Provide data that is accurate, timely, aligned with
their fiscal year and business ownership model,
and based on consistent global standards
to facilitate comparability.
 Recognise that reporting is just one part of
the wider dialogue they have with their investors.
ESG reporting, irrespective of the specific format,
provides a basis for dialogue with investors but
is not a replacement for it.

47 Revealing the full picture How LSEG supports ESG reporting and communication
 Capacity building and supporting issuers
in reporting:
– We provide training, including through our
Academy, and host events that clarify good
practice in corporate reporting;
– Through our unique open access technology
platform ELITE Connect, we allow listed
companies to manage their local and global
investor relations efforts and to improve their
communications with their shareholders and
intermediaries. This platform enables issuers to
showcase their company story and ESG activities
through digital meetings and webcasting;
– In 2000 Borsa Italiana established the STAR
segment which includes mid-cap companies
with high corporate governance standards; and
– Borsa Italiana regularly organises thematic
road shows to facilitate dialogue between listed
companies and investors. Sustainability topics
are increasingly part of these initiatives.
 Profiling issuers on our markets with green
or other sustainability attributes:
– London Stock Exchange has developed one
of the world’s first green bond segments based
on strict admission criteria to support the
growth of this market segment; and
– On Borsa Italiana, listed companies can include
information on sustainability strategies, targets
and performance as an integral part of their
company profiles.
 Providing investors with ESG data,
analytics and indexes:
– FTSE Russell has pioneered ESG indexes for over
15 years since the launch of the FTSE4Good
Index Series and now provides a comprehensive
range of ESG ratings and data;
– We collect ESG data from public sources
and contact over 4,000 companies to check
that information with them directly;
– We track the proportion of companies’ revenues
that derives from products and services serving
the transition to a low carbon economy through
FTSE Russell’s LCE data model; and
– We support stock exchanges including Madrid,
Johannesburg and Malaysia in creating
dedicated ESG indexes for their markets.
 Contributing to global policy
development and dialogue
– We contribute to consultations on ESG reporting.
Recent responses have included those regarding
the EU Non-Financial Reporting Guidance, the
FSB Task Force on Climate-Related Financial
Disclosures, the United States Securities and
Exchange Commission’s consultation on material
disclosures, and the UK Government consultation
on the amendments to the Companies Act;
– We play an active role in a number of global
associations including the UN-backed PRI
and Sustainable Stock Exchanges initiative,
bringing together a wide range of sustainable
investment association;
– We promote good standards in the UK and set
the Italian corporate governance code. In 2016,
we published ‘Creative Tension? 25 Years On’,
a collection of essays on corporate governance
by leading industry figures; and
– We convene market participants, issuers
and investors to improve data, dialogue, and,
ultimately, capital flows.
How LSEG supports ESG
reporting and communication
Beyond its contribution to public policy discussions on driving
global standardisation of ESG reporting, LSEG supports issuers
and investors in making ESG communication effective.
1
2
3
4
48 Revealing the full picture Appendices
Appendices
49 Revealing the full picture Appendices
Indicator
sub code
Indicator description wording Environmental ECC14 Total operational GHG emissions data (Scope 1 & 2) is disclosed
ECC15 Total energy consumption data is disclosed
ECC19 Disclosure of fleet fuel efficiency data by the following countries/regions:
USA; Japan; China; India; Brazil; Russia; Western Europe; CEE (Central and Eastern Europe)
ECC22 Disclosure of Oil & Gas Reserves by type (i.e. Proven, Probable and Possible Reserves):
Total Oil Reserves; Total Gas Reserves; Ratio of Oil:Gas; Oil & Gas: barrels of oil equivalent of reserves
ECC23 GHG emissions per megawatt-hr
ECC30 Disclosure of coal reserves by type (Proven, Probable and Possible Reserves)
EBD11 Disclosure of certified palm oil as a percentage of total palm oil produced/used/processed
EBD12 Disclosure of certified forest products (e.g. FSC, RAN) as a percentage of total forest products produced/used/processed
EBD13 Disclosure of certified seafood (e.g. MSC, ASC) as a percentage of total seafood produced/used/processed
EPR18 Disclosure of NOX emissions (tonnes)
EPR19 Disclosure of SOX emissions (tonnes)
EPR21 Disclosure of volatile organic compounds (VOC) emissions (kilograms)
EPR24 Disclosure of hazardous waste generation (tonnes)
EPR25 Disclosure of non-recycled waste generation (tonnes)
EPR26 Disclosure of waste recycled (tonnes)
EPR27 Total costs of environmental fines and penalties during financial year
EPR28 Percentage of sites covered by recognised environmental management systems such as ISO14001 or EMAS
ESC30 Total GHG emissions data on properties disclosed
ESC31 Total energy usage data on properties disclosed
ESC32 Total water usage data from property portfolio disclosed
EWT11 Total water use / water extraction data is disclosed
EWT12 Percentage of water recycled (non-potable) for use in own operations
Governance GAC12 Disclosure of total amount of political contributions made
GAC13 Disclosure of number of staff disciplined or dismissed due to non-compliance with anti-corruption policy/policies
GAC14 Disclosure of cost of fines, penalties or settlements in relation to corruption
Social SHR17 Total amount of corporate or group donations / community investments made to registered not-for-profit organisations:
SHS12 Percentage of sites with OHSAS 18001 certification
SHS13 Number of staff trained on health and safety standards within the last year
SHS15 Lost-time incident rate, over last three years
SHS38 Number of work-related employee fatalities
SHS40 Number of work-related contractor fatalities
SLS24 Full-time staff voluntary turnover rates
SLS25 Percentage of employees that are contractors or temporary staff
SLS26 Amount of time spent on employee development training to enhance knowledge or individual skills, using:
a) Total hours as a company, or b) Average hours per employee
Revealing the full picture Appendices
Appendix i – Materiality by sector
Quantitative indicators to consider reporting against: These are drawn from the FTSE Russell ESG Ratings Model and
their materiality for different ICB16 Industries is highlighted as either ‘likely’ or ‘possible’. Note that these indicators
themselves draw from a wide variety of pre-existing established standards such as GRI and CDP.
FTSE Russell quantitative ESG data points
50
51 Revealing the full picture Appendices
Basic
Materials
Consumer
Goods
Consumer
Services
Financials
(& Real Estate)
Health Care Industrials Oil & Gas Technology Telecommunications
Utilities
Likely relevance
Possible relevance
For more details on the FTSE Russell ESG Methodology and indicators please see www.ftserussell.com/esg
Appendix ii – LCE definitions
FTSE Russell Low Carbon Economy Industrial Classification System
Overview LCE subsector Description
LCEG: Low
Carbon Energy
Generation
LCE Bio Fuels Companies generating power through the use of crops, plants and other organic materials as fuels
where the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions is a significant function of the power generation
process either on a life-cycle analysis basis or at the point of generation.
LCE Clean
Fossil Fuels
Companies generating power using fossil fuels such as coal, oil or gas where the reduction of greenhouse
gas emissions is a significant function of the power generation process either on a life-cycle analysis
basis or at the point of generation through the use of external technologies.
LCE Geothermal Companies generating power through the utilisation of natural geothermal heat sources created by
planetary accretion or radioactive decay either above or below ground where the reduction of greenhouse
gas emissions is a significant function of the power generation process either on a life-cycle analysis
basis or at the point of generation.
LCE Hydro Companies generating power through the management of stored or redirected water within a controlled
environment where the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions is a significant function of the power
generation process either on a life-cycle analysis basis or at the point of generation.
LCE Integrated
LCEG
Companies whose activities include more than one LCEG subsector.
LCE Nuclear Companies generating power from a process of sustained nuclear fission or fusion within a controlled
environment where the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions is a significant function of the power
generation process either on a life-cycle analysis basis or at the point of generation.
LCE Ocean & Tidal Companies generating power from a process of extracting kinetic energies from the motions and
currents in ocean waters or near shore and offshore tidal currents where the reduction of greenhouse
gas emissions is a significant function of the power generation process either on a life-cycle analysis
basis or at the point of generation.
LCE Solar Companies generating power using radiant light and heat generated by the Sun which is captured
either via Thermal, Photovoltaic, Concentrated Array or Thin Film processes where the reduction
of greenhouse gas emissions is a significant function of the power generation process either
on a life-cycle analysis basis or at the point of generation.
LCE Waste
to Energy
Companies generating power through the use of domestic, agricultural and commercial refuse as fuel
for both thermal and non-thermal energy creation where the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions
is a significant function of the power generation process either on a life-cycle analysis basis or at the
point of generation.
LCE Wind Companies generating power using the kinetic energy of the air in motion which is captured by turbines
and other devices where the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions is a significant function of the power
generation process either on a life-cycle analysis basis or at the point of generation.
LCEQ: Low
Carbon Energy
Equipment
LCE Bio Fuels Companies providing goods, products and services including components, specialist materials, bespoke
manufacturing and maintenance processes, design and operational support capabilities that enable
the generation of power through the use of crops, plants and other organic materials as fuels where
the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions is a significant function of the power generation process
either on a life-cycle analysis basis or at the point of generation.
LCE Clean
Fossil Fuels
Companies providing goods, products and services including components, specialist materials, bespoke
manufacturing and maintenance processes, design and operational support capabilities that enable
the generation of power using fossil fuels such as coal, oil or gas where the reduction of greenhouse
gas emissions is a significant function of the power generation process either on a life-cycle analysis
basis or at the point of generation through the use of external technologies.
LCE Geothermal Companies providing goods, products and services including components, specialist materials, bespoke
manufacturing and maintenance processes, design and operational support capabilities that enable the
generation of power through the utilisation of natural geothermal heat sources created by planetary
accretion or radioactive decay either above or below ground where the reduction of greenhouse gas
emissions is a significant function of the power generation process either on a life-cycle analysis
basis or at the point of generation.
LCE Hydro Companies providing goods, products and services including components, specialist materials, bespoke
manufacturing and maintenance processes, design and operational support capabilities that enable
the generation of power through the management of stored or redirected water within a controlled
environment where the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions is a significant function of the power
generation process either on a life-cycle analysis basis or at the point of generation.
LCE Integrated
LCEQ
Companies whose activities include more than one LCEQ subsector.
52 Revealing the full picture Appendices
53 Revealing the full picture Appendices
Overview LCE subsector Description
LCEQ: Low
Carbon Energy
Equipment
LCE Nuclear Companies providing goods, products and services including components, specialist materials, bespoke
manufacturing and maintenance processes, design and operational support capabilities that enable the
generation of power from a process of sustained nuclear fission or fusion within a controlled environment.
LCE Ocean & Tidal Companies providing goods, products and services including components, specialist materials, bespoke
manufacturing and maintenance processes, design and operational support capabilities that enable
the generation of power from a process of extracting kinetic energies from the motions and currents
in ocean waters or near shore and offshore tidal currents.
LCE Solar Companies providing goods, products and services including components, specialist materials, bespoke
manufacturing and maintenance processes, design and operational support capabilities that enable
the generation of power using radiant light and heat generated by the Sun which is captured either
via Thermal, Photovoltaic, Concentrated Array or Thin Film processes.
LCE Waste
to Energy
Companies providing goods, products and services including components, specialist materials, bespoke
manufacturing and maintenance processes, design and operational support capabilities that enable
the generation of power through the use of domestic, agricultural and commercial refuse as fuel for
both thermal and non-thermal energy creation.
LCE Wind Companies providing goods, products and services including components, specialist materials, bespoke
manufacturing and maintenance processes, design and operational support capabilities that enable
the generation of power using the kinetic energy of the air in motion which is captured by turbines
and other devices.
LCEM: Low
Carbon Energy
Management
LCE Combined
Heat & Power
Companies providing goods, products and services including components, specialist materials, bespoke
manufacturing and maintenance processes, design and operational support capabilities that enable
the control, direction and manipulation of energy during the power generation cycle to ensure its
properties are maximised for the benefit of other energy processes and/or energy devices.
LCE Controls Companies providing goods, products and services including components, specialist materials, bespoke
manufacturing and maintenance processes, design and operational support capabilities that enable
the control, direction and manipulation of energy control processes and/or devices.
LCE Fuel Cells Companies providing goods, products and services including components, specialist materials, bespoke
manufacturing and maintenance processes, design and operational support capabilities related to
electrochemical devices that convert chemical energy from a fuel into usable electric energy.
LCE Integrated
LCEM
Companies whose activities include more than one LCEM subsector.
LCE Logistics
& Support
Companies providing goods, products and services including components, specialist materials, bespoke
manufacturing and maintenance processes, design and operational support capabilities that are ancillary
to the control, direction and management of energy.
LCE Power Storage Companies providing goods, products and services including components, specialist materials, bespoke
manufacturing and maintenance processes, design and operational support capabilities that enable
the efficient storage and delivery of energy.
LCE Smart Grids Companies providing goods, products and services including components, specialist materials, bespoke
manufacturing and maintenance processes, design and operational support capabilities that enable new
and existing power delivery networks to deliver a more effective use of energy by increasing transmission
capabilities or to integrate user functions in an intelligent basis through monitoring and management
of usage and supply.
LCEE: Low
Carbon Energy
Efficiency
LCE Advanced
Materials
Companies providing goods, products and services including components, specialist materials, bespoke
manufacturing and maintenance processes, design and operational support capabilities that enable new
lighter, stronger, longer lasting and less resource intensive or environmentally damaging synthetic
or naturally derived materials and products to be created.
LCE Buildings
& Property
Companies providing goods, products and services including components, specialist materials, bespoke
manufacturing and maintenance processes, design and operational support capabilities that enable new
and refurbished properties to be built, refurbished or operated on the basis that they are less resource
intensive and also reduce their impact on the environment at all levels of their operation in accordance
with internationally recognised standards such as LEED, Energy Star and BREEAM where applicable.
LCE Industrial
Processes
Companies providing goods, products and services including components, specialist materials, bespoke
manufacturing and maintenance processes, design and operational support capabilities that enable
industrial processes operated by companies to become substantially more efficient and less resource
intensive at all levels of their operation.
LCE Integrated
LCEE
Companies whose activities include more than one LCEE subsector.
LCE IT Processes Companies providing goods, products and services including components, specialist materials, bespoke
manufacturing and maintenance processes, design and operational support capabilities that enable
computers and IT related systems to become substantially more efficient and less resource intensive
at all levels of their operation.
54 Revealing the full picture Appendices
Overview LCE subsector Description
LCEE: Low
Carbon Energy
Efficiency
LCE Lighting Companies providing goods, products and services including components, specialist materials, bespoke
manufacturing and maintenance processes, design and operational support capabilities that enable
lighting equipment and products to become substantially more efficient and less resource intensive
at all levels of their operation.
LCE Video
Conferencing
Companies providing goods, products and services including components, specialist materials, bespoke
manufacturing and maintenance processes, design and operational support capabilities that enable
on demand and installed video transmission facilities to provide meeting facilities between companies
that reduce the requirement to travel so frequently.
LCEI:
Low Carbon
Environmental
Infrastructure
LCE Carbon
Capture & Storage
Companies providing goods, products and services including components, specialist materials, bespoke
manufacturing and maintenance processes, design and operational support capabilities that enable the
sequestration, capture, cleaning, transport and storage of Carbon Dioxide (CO2) either as an industrial
by product or from the existing ecosystem.
LCE Desalination Companies providing goods, products and services including components, specialist materials, bespoke
manufacturing and maintenance processes, design and operational support capabilities that enable
the conversion of salt water to fresh water so it is suitable for human, agricultural or industrial use
through the removal of salt and/or other minerals.
LCE Flood Control
& Land Erosion
Companies providing goods, products and services including components, specialist materials, bespoke
manufacturing and maintenance processes, design and operational support capabilities that reduce
or control the impact of inland or coastal flooding and increasing water levels as well as the impact
on terrain of degradation caused by external forces.
LCE Integrated
LCEI
Companies whose activities include more than one LCEI subsector.
LCE Logistics
& Support
Companies providing goods, products and services including components, specialist materials,
bespoke manufacturing and maintenance processes, design and operational support capabilities
that are ancillary to the control, direction and management of human impacts on the environment,
the environment’s impact on humans as well as the ecosystem’s ability to support and sustain
the current and future populations.
LCE Pollution
Management
Companies providing goods, products and services including components, specialist materials, bespoke
manufacturing and maintenance processes, design and operational support capabilities that enable
us to manage the negative impact of contaminants in the natural environment that cause instability,
disorder, harm or discomfort to the ecosystem in accordance with internationally recognised
standards where applicable.
LCE Recyclable
Products
Companies providing goods, products and services including components, specialist materials, bespoke
manufacturing and maintenance processes, design and operational support capabilities that specifically
and consciously reduce the impact of human activity through the use recycled materials as the primary
component of another product, or by enabling components to be easily recycled and/or absorbed thus
reducing their life-cycle impact on the environment in accordance with internationally recognised
standards where applicable.
LCE Recycling
Services
Companies providing goods, products and services including components, specialist materials, bespoke
manufacturing and maintenance processes, design and operational support services that enable the
recovery of natural resources and synthetic materials from waste created by human activity as an
alternative and substitute to the use of raw materials in accordance with internationally recognised
standards where applicable.
LCE Waste
Management
Companies providing goods, products and services including components, specialist materials, bespoke
manufacturing and maintenance processes, design and operational support capabilities that enable the
effective management of discarded materials produced by human activity to reduce their impact on
health and the environment in accordance with internationally recognised standards where applicable.
LCE Water
Management
Companies providing goods, products and services including components, specialist materials, bespoke
manufacturing and maintenance processes, design and operational support capabilities that help
establish, regulate, deliver and reduce losses in the supply of clean water for Human, Agricultural
& Industrial consumption.
LCER:
Low Carbon
Environmental
Resources
LCE Agriculture Companies providing goods, products and services that are specifically able to enhance the viability,
yield, scope and sustainability of agricultural output in accordance with domestic or internationally
recognised standards where applicable.
LCE Aquaculture Companies providing goods, products and services that are specifically able to enhance the viability,
yield, scope and sustainability of aquacultural output in accordance with domestic or internationally
recognised standards where applicable.
LCE Integrated
LCER
Companies whose activities include more than one LCER subsector.
LCE Mining Companies providing goods, products and services derived from the ownership of mineral and ore
extraction rights where the raw materials obtained from such minerals and ores are required as a key
resource to enable other processes in the industrial transition to the low carbon economy.
55 Revealing the full picture Appendices
Overview LCE subsector Description
LCER:
Low Carbon
Environmental
Resources
LCE Minerals
& Metals
Companies providing goods, products and services derived from the processing and management
of mineral and ore based raw materials that are required as a key resource to enable other processes
in the industrial transition to the low carbon economy.
LCE Source Water Companies providing goods, products and services derived from the ownership or control of water
extraction rights where such rights specifically apply controls in respect of ecosystem protection and
the maintenance of sustainable reserves in accordance with domestic or internationally recognised
standards where applicable.
LCE Sustainable
Forestry
Companies providing goods, products and services derived from the ownership or control of timber
extraction rights where such rights specifically apply controls in respect of ecosystem protection and
the maintenance of sustainable reserves in accordance with domestic or internationally recognised
standards where applicable.
LCMS:
Low Carbon
Modal Shift
LCE Aviation Companies providing goods, products and services including components, specialist materials, bespoke
manufacturing and maintenance processes, design and operational support capabilities that are
specifically able to help adapt, mitigate or remediate the impact air transportation has through
any part of its operation on climate change, resource depletion or environmental erosion.
LCE Integrated
LCMS
Companies whose activities include more than one LCTR subsector.
LCE Railways Companies providing goods, products and services including components, specialist materials, bespoke
manufacturing and maintenance processes, design and operational support capabilities that are
specifically able to help adapt, mitigate or remediate the impact rail transportation has through
any part of its operation on climate change, resource depletion or environmental erosion.
LCE Road Vehicles Companies providing goods, products and services including components, specialist materials, bespoke
manufacturing and maintenance processes, design and operational support capabilities that are
specifically able to help adapt, mitigate or remediate the impact road transportation has through
any part of its operation on climate change, resource depletion or environmental erosion.
LCE Shipping Companies providing goods, products and services including components, specialist materials,
bespoke manufacturing and maintenance processes, design and operational support capabilities that
are specifically able to help adapt, mitigate or remediate the impact ocean and inland waterborne
transportation has through any part of its operation on climate change, resource depletion or
environmental erosion.
LCMS:
Low Carbon
Modal Shift
LCE Finance
& Investment
Companies providing financial goods, products and services on a retail or wholesale basis to private and
corporate clients that are differentiated from a company or industries existing business model because
they are specifically able to help adapt, mitigate or remediate the impact of climate change, resource
depletion or environmental erosion.
LCE Integrated
LCOS
Companies whose activities include more than one LCOS subsector.
LCE Retail
& Wholesale
Companies providing non-financial goods, products and services on a retail or wholesale basis to private
and corporate clients that are differentiated from a company or industries existing business model
because they are specifically able to help adapt, mitigate or remediate the impact of climate change,
resource depletion or environmental erosion.
LCE Property Companies providing new and refurbished commercial, residential, leisure or public buildings that can
be operated, sold or rented on the basis that they are less resource intensive and also reduce their impact
on the environment at all levels of their operation in accordance with internationally recognised
standards such as LEED & BREEAM where applicable.
56 Revealing the full picture Appendices
Glossary20
Best-in-Class investment selection: Approach
where leading or best-performing investments within
a universe, category or class are selected or weighted
based on ESG criteria.
Engagement and voting on sustainability matters:
Engagement activities and active ownership through
voting of shares and engagement with companies
on ESG matters. This is a long-term process, seeking
to influence behaviour or increase disclosure.
Exclusions: An approach that excludes specific
investments or classes of investment from the investible
universe such as companies, sectors or countries.
Impact Investing: Impact investments are
investments made into companies, organisations
and funds with the intention to generate social and
environmental impact alongside a financial return.
Impact investments can be made in both emerging
and developed markets, and target a range of returns
from below-market to market-rate, depending upon
the circumstances.
Integration of ESG issues: The explicit inclusion
by asset managers of ESG risks and opportunities in
traditional financial analysis and investment decisions
based on a systematic process and appropriate
research sources Norms-based screening: Screening
of investments according to their compliance with
international standards and norms
Sustainability themed investment: Investment
in themes or assets linked to the development
of sustainability. Thematic funds focus on specific
or multiple issues related to ESG.
Appendix iii – ESG investors overview
The adoption of ESG approaches in investment is a growing force in global financial flows.
Due to the complexity of this market, there have been various attempts to classify investors into categories
according to their strategy. These could be grouped according to their capital focus and motivations, from ESG-risk
related issues only to environmental and/or social impact only. In addition, they could be classified depending
upon how ESG is implemented. The table below outlines the commonly used categories.
Eurosif GSIA-equivalent17 PRI-equivalent18 EFAMA-equivalent19
Exclusions ESG Negative screening ESG Negative /
Exclusionary screening
Negative screening or Exclusion
Norms-based screening Norms-based screening Norms-based screening Norms-based approach
Best-in-Class selection ESG Positive screening
and Best-in-Class
ESG Positive screening
and Best-in-Class
Best-in-Class policy
Sustainability-themed Sustainability-themed ESG-themed Investments Thematic investment
ESG integration ESG Integration Integration of ESG issues –
Engagement and voting Corporate engagement
and shareholder action
Engagement (three types) Engagement (voting)
Impact investing Impact / Community investing – –

