2013 No. 1970
COMPANIES
The Companies Act 2006 (Strategic Report
and Directors’ Report) Regulations 2013
Made - - - - 6th August 2013
Coming into force - - 1st October 2013
The Secretary of State makes the following Regulations in exercise of the powers conferred by
sections 416, 468, 473(2) and 1292(1) of the Companies Act 2006(1).
In accordance with sections 473(3), 1290 and 1292(4) of that Act, a draft of this instrument was laid
before Parliament and approved by a resolution of each House of Parliament.
PART 1
INTRODUCTION
Citation, commencement and application
1.—(1) These Regulations may be cited as the Companies Act 2006 (Strategic Report and
Directors’ Report) Regulations 2013.
(2) Subject to paragraph (3), these Regulations come into force on 1st October 2013.
(3) The following provisions of this instrument come into force on the making of these
Regulations for the purposes only of the exercise of the powers to make regulations in the sections
amended—
(a) regulation 10;
(b) paragraph 12(b) and (c) of the Schedule.
(4) These Regulations have effect in respect of financial years ending on or after 30th September
2013.
(1) 2006 c.46. Section 416(3) was amended by S.I. 2008/393.
Document Generated: 2017-08-01
Status: This is the original version (as it was originally made). This
item of legislation is currently only available in its original format.
PART 2
STRATEGIC REPORT
Duty to prepare strategic report
2. Part 15 (accounts and reports) of the Companies Act 2006 is amended as follows.
3. Before Chapter 5 (directors’ report) insert—
“CHAPTER 4A
STRATEGIC REPORT
Duty to prepare strategic report
414A.—(1) The directors of a company must prepare a strategic report for each financial
year of the company.
(2) Subsection (1) does not apply if the company is entitled to the small companies
exemption.
(3) For a financial year in which—
(a) the company is a parent company, and
(b) the directors of the company prepare group accounts,
the strategic report must be a consolidated report (a “group strategic report”) relating to the
undertakings included in the consolidation.
(4) A group strategic report may, where appropriate, give greater emphasisto the matters
that are significant to the undertakings included in the consolidation, taken as a whole.
(5) In the case of failure to comply with the requirement to prepare a strategic report,
an offence is committed by every person who—
(a) was a director of the company immediately before the end of the period for filing
accounts and reports for the financial year in question, and
(b) failed to take all reasonable steps for securing compliance with that requirement.
(6) A person guilty of an offence under this section is liable—
(a) on conviction on indictment, to a fine;
(b) on summary conviction, to a fine not exceeding the statutory maximum.
Strategic report: small companies exemption
414B. A company is entitled to small companies exemption in relation to the strategic
report for a financial year if—
(a) it is entitled to prepare accounts for the year in accordance with the small
companies regime, or
(b) it would be so entitled but for being or having been a member of an ineligible
group.
Contents of strategic report
414C.—(1) The purpose of the strategic report is to inform members of the company
and help them assess how the directors have performed their duty under section 172 (duty
to promote the success of the company).
2
Document Generated: 2017-08-01
Status: This is the original version (as it was originally made). This
item of legislation is currently only available in its original format.
(2) The strategic report must contain—
(a) a fair review of the company’s business, and
(b) a description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the company.
(3) The review required is a balanced and comprehensive analysis of—
(a) the development and performance of the company’s business during the financial
year, and
(b) the position of the company’s business at the end of that year,
consistent with the size and complexity of the business.
(4) The review must, to the extent necessary for an understanding of the development,
performance or position of the company’s business, include—
(a) analysis using financial key performance indicators, and
(b) where appropriate, analysis using other key performance indicators, including
information relating to environmental matters and employee matters.
(5) In subsection (4), “key performance indicators” means factors by reference to which
the development, performance or position of the company’s business can be measured
effectively.
(6) Where a company qualifies as medium-sized in relation to a financial year (see
sections 465 to 467), the review for the year need not comply with the requirements of
subsection (4) so far as they relate to non-financial information.
(7) In the case of a quoted company the strategic report must, to the extent necessary for
an understanding of the development, performance or position of the company’s business,
include—
(a) the main trends and factors likely to affect the future development, performance
and position of the company’s business, and
(b) information about—
(i) environmental matters (including the impact of the company’s business on
the environment),
(ii) the company’s employees, and
(iii) social, community and human rights issues,
including information about any policies of the company in relation to those
matters and the effectiveness of those policies.
If the report does not contain information of each kind mentioned in paragraphs (b)(i), (ii)
and (iii), it must state which of those kinds of information it does not contain.
(8) In the case of a quoted company the strategic report must include—
(a) a description of the company’s strategy,
(b) a description of the company’s business model,
(c) a breakdown showing at the end of the financial year—
(i) the number of persons of each sex who were directors of the company;
(ii) the number of persons of each sex who were senior managers of the
company (other than persons falling within sub-paragraph (i)); and
(iii) the number of persons of each sex who were employees of the company.
(9) In subsection (8), “senior manager” means a person who—
3
Document Generated: 2017-08-01
Status: This is the original version (as it was originally made). This
item of legislation is currently only available in its original format.
(a) has responsibility for planning, directing or controlling the activities of the
company, or a strategically significant part of the company, and
(b) is an employee of the company.
(10) In relation to a group strategic report—
(a) the reference to the company in subsection (8)(c)(i) is to the parent company; and
(b) the breakdown required by subsection (8)(c)(ii) must include the number of
persons of each sex who were the directors of the undertakings included in the
consolidation.
(11) The strategic report may also contain such of the matters otherwise required by
regulations made under section 416(4) to be disclosed in the directors’ report as the directors
consider are of strategic importance to the company.
(12) The report must, where appropriate, include references to, and additional
explanations of, amounts included in the company’s annual accounts.
(13) Subject to paragraph (10), in relation to a group strategic report this section has
effect as if the references to the company were references to the undertakings included in
the consolidation.
(14) Nothing in this section requires the disclosure of information about impending
developments or matters in the course of negotiation if the disclosure would, in the opinion
of the directors, be seriously prejudicial to the interests of the company.
Approval and signing of strategic report
414D.—(1) The strategic report must be approved by the board of directors and signed
on behalf of the board by a director or the secretary of the company.
(2) If a strategic report is approved that does not comply with the requirements of this
Act, every director of the company who—
(a) knew that it did not comply, or was reckless as to whether it complied, and
(b) failed to take reasonable steps to secure compliance with those requirements or,
as the case may be, to prevent the report from being approved,
commits an offence.
(3) A person guilty of an offence under this section is liable—
(a) on conviction on indictment, to a fine;
(b) on summary conviction, to a fine not exceeding the statutory maximum.”.
4. In section 415A(2)(2) (provisions to which small companies exemption for directors’ report
is relevant)—
(a) after “dividend),” insert “and”, and
(b) omit “section 417 (contents of report: business review), and”.
5. Omit section 417 (contents of directors’ report: business review).
(2) Section 415A was inserted by regulation 6(2) of S.I. 2008/393.
4
Document Generated: 2017-08-01
Status: This is the original version (as it was originally made). This
item of legislation is currently only available in its original format.
PART 3
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
Amendment to section 416 of Companies Act 2006
6.—(1) Section 416 (content of directors’ report: general) is amended as follows.
(2) In subsection (1) omit paragraph (b) and the “and” immediately preceding that paragraph.
(3) Omit subsection (2).
Amendments to the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and
Reports) Regulations 2008
7.—(1) The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports)
Regulations 2008(3) are amended as follows.
(2) For regulation 10(2) (directors’ report: structure of Schedule 7) substitute—
“(2) In Schedule 7—
Part 1 relates to matters of a general nature including political donations and
expenditure,
Part 2 relates to the acquisition by a company of its own shares or a charge on them,
Part 3 relates to the employment, training and advancement of disabled persons,
Part 4 relates to the involvement of employees in the affairs, policy and performance
of the company,
Part 6 relates to certain disclosures required by publicly traded companies, and
Part 7 relates to disclosures in relation to greenhouse gas emissions.”.
(3) In Schedule 7 (matters to be dealt with in directors’ report)—
(a) after paragraph 1 insert—
“1A. Where a company has chosen in accordance with section 414C(11) to set out
in the company’s strategic report information required by this Schedule to be contained
in the directors’ report it shall state in the directors’ report that it has done so and in
respect of which information it has done so.”;
(b) omit paragraphs 2 (asset values) and 5 (charitable donations);
(c) in paragraph 8 (company acquiring own shares), in the opening words of that paragraph,
before “company” insert “public”;
(d) omit paragraph 12 (policy and practice on payment of creditors); and
(e) after paragraph 14 insert—
“PART 7
DISCLOSURES CONCERNING GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS
15.—(1) This Part of this Schedule applies to the directors’ report for a
financial year if the company is a quoted company.
(3) S.I. 2008/410.
5
Document Generated: 2017-08-01
Status: This is the original version (as it was originally made). This
item of legislation is currently only available in its original format.
(2) The report must state the annual quantity of emissions in tonnes of
carbon dioxide equivalent from activities for which that company is responsible
including—
(a) the combustion of fuel; and
(b) the operation of any facility.
(3) The report must state the annual quantity of emissions in tonnes of
carbon dioxide equivalent resulting from the purchase of electricity, heat, steam
or cooling by the company for its own use.
(4) Sub-paragraphs (2) and (3) apply only to the extent that it is practical for
the company to obtain the information in question; but where it is not practical
for the company to obtain some or all of that information, the report must state
what information is not included and why.
16. The directors’ report must state the methodologies used to calculate the
information disclosed under paragraph 15(2) and (3).
17. The directors’ report must state at least one ratio which expresses the
quoted company’s annual emissions in relation to a quantifiable factor associated
with the company’s activities.
18. With the exception of the first year for which the directors’ report contains
the information required by paragraphs 15(2) and (3) and 17, the report must state
not only the information required by paragraphs 15(2) and (3) and 17, but also
that information as disclosed in the report for the preceding financial year.
19. The directors’ report must state if the period for which it is reporting
the information required by paragraph 15(2) and (3) is different to the period in
respect of which the directors’ report is prepared.
20. The following definitions apply for the purposes of this Part of this
Schedule—
“emissions” means emissions into the atmosphere of a greenhouse gas
as defined in section 92 of the Climate Change Act 2008(4) which are
attributable to human activity;
“tonne of carbon dioxide equivalent” has the meaning given in section 93(2)
of the Climate Change Act 2008.”.
Amendments to the Small Companies and Groups (Accounts and Directors’ Report)
Regulations 2008
8.—(1) Schedule 5 to the Small Companies and Groups (Accounts and Directors’ Report)
Regulations 2008(5) (matters to be dealt with in directors’ report) is amended as follows.
(2) Omit paragraph 4 (charitable donations).
(3) Omit paragraph 6 (company acquiring own shares).
(4) 2008 c. 27.
(5) S.I. 2008/409 to which there are amendments not relevant to these Regulations.
6
Document Generated: 2017-08-01
Status: This is the original version (as it was originally made). This
item of legislation is currently only available in its original format.
PART 4
OPTION TO PROVIDE STRATEGIC REPORT
Option to provide strategic report with supplementary material
9. Part 15 (accounts and reports) of the Companies Act 2006 is amended as follows.
10.—(1) Section 426 (option to provide summary financial statement) is amended as follows.
(2) In the cross-heading before the section and in the heading to the section for “summary
financial statement” substitute “strategic report with supplementary material”.
(3) In subsection (1) for “summary financial statement” substitute “copy of the strategic report
together with the supplementary material described in section 426A”.
(4) Omit subsection (4).
11. Omit section 427 (form and contents of summary financial statement: unquoted companies)
and section 428 (form and contents of summary financial statement: quoted companies).
12.—(1) After section 426 (option to provide summary financial statement) insert—
“Supplementary material
426A.—(1) The supplementary material referred to in section 426 must be prepared in
accordance with this section.
(2) The supplementary material must—
(a) contain a statement that the strategic report is only part of the company’s annual
accounts and reports;
(b) state how a person entitled to them can obtain a full copy of the company’s annual
accounts and reports;
(c) state whether the auditor’sreport on the annual accounts was unqualified or qualified
and, if it was qualified, set out the report in full together with any further material
needed to understand the qualification;
(d) state whether, in that report, the auditor’s statement under section 496 (whether
strategic report and directors’ report consistent with the accounts) was unqualified
or qualified and, if it was qualified, set out the qualified statement in full together
with any further material needed to understand the qualification;
(e) in the case of a quoted company, contain a copy of that part of the directors’
remuneration report which sets out the single total figure table in respect of
the company’s directors’ remuneration in accordance with the requirements of
Schedule 8 to the Large and Medium-sized Companies (Accounts and Reports)
Regulations 2008 (S.I. 2008/410).”
13. Omit section 429 (summary financial statements: offences).
