DTR 7.2 Corporate governance statements
DTR 7.2.1R27/07/2018
RP
An issuer to which this section applies must include a corporate governance statement in its directors’ report. That statement must be included as a specific section of the directors’ report and must contain at least the information set out in DTR 7.2.2 R to DTR 7.2.7 R and, where applicable, DTR 7.2.8AR and DTR 7.2.10 R.

DTR 7.2.2R29/01/2016
RP
The corporate governance statement must contain a reference to the following, where applicable:

(1) the corporate governance code to which the issuer is subject;
(2) the corporate governance code which the issuer may have voluntarily decided to apply; and
(3) all relevant information about the corporate governance practices applied over and above the requirements of national law.
[Note: article 20(1)(a) first paragraph of the Accounting Directive]

DTR 7.2.3R29/01/2016
RP
(1) An issuer which is complying with DTR 7.2.2 R (1) or DTR 7.2.2 R (2) must:
(a) state in its directors’ report where the relevant corporate governance code is publicly available; and
(b) where it departs from that corporate governance code, explain which parts of the corporate governance code it departs from and the reasons for doing so.
(2) Where DTR 7.2.2 R (3) applies, the issuer must make details of its corporate governance practices publicly available and state in its directors’ report where they can be found.
(3) If an issuer has decided not to refer to any provisions of a corporate governance code referred to under DTR 7.2.2 R (1) and DTR 7.2.2 R (2), it must explain its reasons for that decision.
[Note: article 20(1)(a) second paragraph and article 20(1)(b) of the Accounting Directive]

DTR 7.2.4G06/08/2010
RP
A listed company which complies with LR 9.8.6R (6) (the comply or explain rule in relation to theUK Corporate Governance Code) will satisfy the requirements of DTR 7.2.2 R and DTR 7.2.3 R.

DTR 7.2.5R29/01/2016
RP
The corporate governance statement must contain a description of the main features of the issuer's internal control and risk management systems in relation to the financial reporting process.

[Note: article 20(1)(c) of the Accounting Directive]

DTR 7.2.6R01/01/2021
RP
The corporate governance statement must contain the information required by paragraph 13(2)(c), (d), (f), (h) and (i) of Schedule 7 to the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) Regulations 2008 (SI 2008/410) (information about share capital) where the issuer is subject to the requirements of that paragraph.

[Note: article 20(1)(d) of the Accounting Directive]

DTR 7.2.7R29/01/2016
RP
The corporate governance statement must contain a description of the composition and operation of the issuer's administrative, management and supervisory bodies and their committees.

[Note: article 20(1)(f) of the Accounting Directive]

DTR 7.2.8G13/12/2019
RP
In the FCA's view, the information specified in Provisions 14, 20, 23, 26, 35 and 41 of the UK Corporate Governance Code and paragraph 63 of the ‘Guidance on Board Effectiveness’ published by the Financial Reporting Council in July 2018 will satisfy the requirements of DTR 7.2.7 R, except as regards a description of the composition of the issuer’s administrative, management and supervisory bodies and their committees.

DTR 7.2.8AR20/04/2022
RP
(1) The corporate governance statement must contain a description of:
(a) the diversity policy applied to the issuer’s administrative, management and supervisory bodies and the remuneration, audit and nomination committees of those bodies with regard to aspects such as, for instance, age, gender, ethnicity, sexual orientation, disability or educational, professional and socio-economic backgrounds;
(b) the objectives of the diversity policy in (a);
(c) how the diversity policy in (a) has been implemented; and
(d) the results in the reporting period.
(2) If no diversity policy is applied by the issuer, the corporate governance statement must contain an explanation as to why this is the case.
[Note: article 20(1)(g) of the Accounting Directive]

DTR 7.2.8BG04/11/2016
RP
DTR 7.2.8AR does not apply to an issuer which qualifies as a small or medium company under DTR 1B.1.7R.

DTR 7.2.8CG20/04/2022
For the purposes of the description in DTR 7.2.8AR(1)(d), the issuer may, where it considers appropriate, include numerical data on the diversity of the members of the bodies and committees referred to in DTR 7.2.8AR(1)(a).

DTR 7.2.9R27/07/2018
RP
An issuer may elect that, instead of including its corporate governance statement in its directors’ report, the information required by DTR 7.2.1 R to DTR 7.2.8AR may be set out in:

(1) a separate report published together with and in the same manner as its annual report; or
(2) a document publicly available on the issuer's website to which reference is made in the directors’ report.
Under (1) or (2), the corporate governance statement must contain the information required by DTR 7.2.6R or a reference to the directors’ report where that information is made available.

[Note: article 20(2) of the Accounting Directive]

DTR 7.2.10R29/01/2016
RP
Subject to DTR 7.2.11 R, an issuer which is required to prepare a group directors’ report within the meaning of section 415(2) of the Companies Act 2006 must include in that report a description of the main features of the group’s internal control and risk management systems in relation to the financial reporting process for the undertakings included in the consolidation, taken as a whole. In the event that the issuer presents its own annual report and its consolidated annual report as a single report, this information must be included in the corporate governance statement required by DTR 7.2.1 R.

[Note: article 29(2)(b) of the Accounting Directive]

DTR 7.2.11R29/01/2016
RP
(1) An issuer that elects to include its corporate governance statement in a separate report as permitted by DTR 7.2.9R(1) must provide the information required by DTR 7.2.10R in that report.
(2) An issuer that elects to include its corporate governance statement in a document publicly available on the issuer's website to which reference is made in the directors’ report as permitted by DTR 7.2.9R(2) must provide the information required by DTR 7.2.10R in that document.

Reporting on the Code
The 2018 Code focuses on the application of the Principles. The Listing
Rules require companies to make a statement of how they have applied
the Principles, in a manner that would enable shareholders to evaluate
how the Principles have been applied. The ability of investors to evaluate
the approach to governance is important. Reporting should cover the
application of the Principles in the context of the particular circumstances
of the company and how the board has set the company’s purpose and
strategy, met objectives and achieved outcomes through the decisions it
has taken.
It is important to report meaningfully when discussing the application of
the Principles and to avoid boilerplate reporting. The focus should be on
how these have been applied, articulating what action has been taken
and the resulting outcomes. High-quality reporting will include signposting
and cross-referencing to those parts of the annual report that describe
how the Principles have been applied. This will help investors with their
evaluation of company practices.
The effective application of the Principles should be supported by
high-quality reporting on the Provisions. These operate on a ‘comply or
explain’ basis and companies should avoid a ‘tick-box approach’. An
alternative to complying with a Provision may be justified in particular
circumstances based on a range of factors, including the size, complexity,
history and ownership structure of a company. Explanations should set
out the background, provide a clear rationale for the action the company
is taking, and explain the impact that the action has had. Where a
departure from a Provision is intended to be limited in time, the explanation
should indicate when the company expects to conform to the Provision.
Explanations are a positive opportunity to communicate, not an onerous
obligation.
In line with their responsibilities under the UK Stewardship Code,
investors should engage constructively and discuss with the company
any departures from recommended practice. In their consideration
of explanations, investors and their advisors should pay due regard
to a company’s individual circumstances. While they have every right
to challenge explanations if they are unconvincing, these must not be
evaluated in a mechanistic way. Investors and their advisors should also
give companies sufficient time to respond to enquiries about corporate
governance.
3 UK Corporate Governance Code 2018
Corporate governance reporting should also relate coherently to other
parts of the annual report – particularly the Strategic Report and other
complementary information – so that shareholders can effectively assess
the quality of the company’s governance arrangements, and the board’s
activities and contributions. This should include providing information that
enables shareholders to assess how the directors have performed their
duty under section 172 of the Companies Act 2006 (the Act) to promote
the success of the company. Nothing in this Code overrides or is intended
as an interpretation of the statutory statement of directors’ duties in the
Act.
The Code is also supported by the Guidance on Board Effectiveness (the
Guidance). We encourage boards and companies to use this to support
their activities. The Guidance does not set out the ‘right way’ to apply
the Code. It is intended to stimulate thinking on how boards can carry
out their role most effectively. The Guidance is designed to help boards
with their actions and decisions when reporting on the application of the
Code’s Principles. The board should also take into account the Financial
Reporting Council’s Guidance on Audit Committees and Guidance on
Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and Business
Reporting.
Application
The Code is applicable to all companies with a premium listing, whether
incorporated in the UK or elsewhere. The new Code applies to accounting
periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019.
For parent companies with a premium listing, the board should ensure that
there is adequate co-operation within the group to enable it to discharge
its governance responsibilities under the Code effectively. This includes
the communication of the parent company’s purpose, values and strategy.
Externally managed investment companies (which typically have a different
board and company structure that may affect the relevance of particular
Principles) may wish to use the Association of Investment Companies’
Corporate Governance Code to meet their obligations under the Code.
In addition, the Association of Financial Mutuals produces an annotated
version of the Code for mutual insurers to use.

CONTENTS
Introduction 1
1 Board Leadership and Company Purpose 4
2 Division of Responsibilities 6
3 Composition, Succession and Evaluation 8
4 Audit, Risk and Internal Control 10
5 Remuneration 13
1 Guidance on Board Effectiveness 2018

1 BOARD LEADERSHIP
AND COMPANY PURPOSE
Principles
A. A successful company is led by an effective and entrepreneurial board, whose role is to
promote the long-term sustainable success of the company, generating value for shareholders
and contributing to wider society.
B. The board should establish the company’s purpose, values and strategy, and satisfy itself that
these and its culture are aligned. All directors must act with integrity, lead by example and
promote the desired culture.
C. The board should ensure that the necessary resources are in place for the company to meet
its objectives and measure performance against them. The board should also establish a
framework of prudent and effective controls, which enable risk to be assessed and managed.
D. In order for the company to meet its responsibilities to shareholders and stakeholders, the
board should ensure effective engagement with, and encourage participation from, these
parties.
E. The board should ensure that workforce policies and practices are consistent with the
company’s values and support its long-term sustainable success. The workforce should be
able to raise any matters of concern.
Provisions
1. The board should assess the basis on which the company generates
and preserves value over the long-term. It should describe in the
annual report how opportunities and risks to the future success of the
business have been considered and addressed, the sustainability of
the company’s business model and how its governance contributes
to the delivery of its strategy.
2. The board should assess and monitor culture. Where it is not satisfied
that policy, practices or behaviour throughout the business are
aligned with the company’s purpose, values and strategy, it should
seek assurance that management has taken corrective action. The
annual report should explain the board’s activities and any action
taken. In addition, it should include an explanation of the company’s
approach to investing in and rewarding its workforce.
3. In addition to formal general meetings, the chair should seek
regular engagement with major shareholders in order to understand
their views on governance and performance against the strategy.
Committee chairs should seek engagement with shareholders on
significant matters related to their areas of responsibility. The chair
should ensure that the board as a whole has a clear understanding
of the views of shareholders.
5 UK Corporate Governance Code 2018
4. When 20 per cent or more of votes have been cast against the board
recommendation for a resolution, the company should explain, when
announcing voting results, what actions it intends to take to consult
shareholders in order to understand the reasons behind the result. An
update on the views received from shareholders and actions taken
should be published no later than six months after the shareholder
meeting. The board should then provide a final summary in the annual
report and, if applicable, in the explanatory notes to resolutions at the
next shareholder meeting, on what impact the feedback has had on
the decisions the board has taken and any actions or resolutions
now proposed.1
5. The board should understand the views of the company’s other key
stakeholders and describe in the annual report how their interests
and the matters set out in section 172 of the Companies Act 2006
have been considered in board discussions and decision-making.2
The board should keep engagement mechanisms under review so
that they remain effective.
For engagement with the workforce,3
 one or a combination of the
following methods should be used:
• a director appointed from the workforce;
• a formal workforce advisory panel;
• a designated non-executive director.
If the board has not chosen one or more of these methods, it
should explain what alternative arrangements are in place and why it
considers that they are effective.
6. There should be a means for the workforce to raise concerns in
confidence and – if they wish – anonymously. The board should
routinely review this and the reports arising from its operation. It
should ensure that arrangements are in place for the proportionate
and independent investigation of such matters and for follow-up
action.
7. The board should take action to identify and manage conflicts of
interest, including those resulting from significant shareholdings, and
ensure that the influence of third parties does not compromise or
override independent judgement.
8. Where directors have concerns about the operation of the board
or the management of the company that cannot be resolved, their
concerns should be recorded in the board minutes. On resignation,
a non-executive director should provide a written statement to the
chair, for circulation to the board, if they have any such concerns.
1 Details of significant votes against and related
company updates are available on the Public Register
maintained by The Investment Association – www.
theinvestmentassociation.org/publicregister.html
2
 The Companies (Miscellaneous Reporting)
Regulations 2018 require directors to explain how
they have had regard to various matters in performing
their duty to promote the success of the company in
section 172 of the Companies Act 2006. The Financial
Reporting Council’s Guidance on the Strategic Report
supports reporting on the legislative requirement.
3
 See the Guidance on Board Effectiveness Section 1
for a description of ‘workforce’ in this context.
Financial Reporting Council 6
2 DIVISION OF RESPONSIBILITIES
Provisions
9. The chair should be independent on appointment when assessed
against the circumstances set out in Provision 10. The roles of chair
and chief executive should not be exercised by the same individual.
A chief executive should not become chair of the same company.
If, exceptionally, this is proposed by the board, major shareholders
should be consulted ahead of appointment. The board should set
out its reasons to all shareholders at the time of the appointment and
also publish these on the company website.
10. The board should identify in the annual report each non-executive
director it considers to be independent. Circumstances which are
likely to impair, or could appear to impair, a non-executive director’s
independence include, but are not limited to, whether a director:
• is or has been an employee of the company or group within the
last five years;
• has, or has had within the last three years, a material business
relationship with the company, either directly or as a partner,
shareholder, director or senior employee of a body that has such
a relationship with the company;
• has received or receives additional remuneration from the company
apart from a director’s fee, participates in the company’s share
option or a performance-related pay scheme, or is a member of
the company’s pension scheme;
Principles
F. The chair leads the board and is responsible for its overall effectiveness in directing the company.
They should demonstrate objective judgement throughout their tenure and promote a culture
of openness and debate. In addition, the chair facilitates constructive board relations and the
effective contribution of all non-executive directors, and ensures that directors receive accurate,
timely and clear information.
G. The board should include an appropriate combination of executive and non-executive (and,
in particular, independent non-executive) directors, such that no one individual or small
group of individuals dominates the board’s decision-making. There should be a clear division
of responsibilities between the leadership of the board and the executive leadership of the
company’s business.
H. Non-executive directors should have sufficient time to meet their board responsibilities. They
should provide constructive challenge, strategic guidance, offer specialist advice and hold
management to account.
I. The board, supported by the company secretary, should ensure that it has the policies, processes,
information, time and resources it needs in order to function effectively and efficiently.
7 UK Corporate Governance Code 2018
• has close family ties with any of the company’s advisers, directors
or senior employees;
• holds cross-directorships or has significant links with other
directors through involvement in other companies or bodies;
• represents a significant shareholder; or
• has served on the board for more than nine years from the date of
their first appointment.
Where any of these or other relevant circumstances apply, and
the board nonetheless considers that the non-executive director is
independent, a clear explanation should be provided.
11. At least half the board, excluding the chair, should be non-executive
directors whom the board considers to be independent.
12. The board should appoint one of the independent non-executive
directors to be the senior independent director to provide a sounding
board for the chair and serve as an intermediary for the other
directors and shareholders. Led by the senior independent director,
the non-executive directors should meet without the chair present
at least annually to appraise the chair’s performance, and on other
occasions as necessary.
13. Non-executive directors have a prime role in appointing and removing
executive directors. Non-executive directors should scrutinise and
hold to account the performance of management and individual
executive directors against agreed performance objectives. The
chair should hold meetings with the non-executive directors without
the executive directors present.
14. The responsibilities of the chair, chief executive, senior independent
director, board and committees should be clear, set out in writing,
agreed by the board and made publicly available. The annual
report should set out the number of meetings of the board and its
committees, and the individual attendance by directors.
15. When making new appointments, the board should take into account
other demands on directors’ time. Prior to appointment, significant
commitments should be disclosed with an indication of the time
involved. Additional external appointments should not be undertaken
without prior approval of the board, with the reasons for permitting
significant appointments explained in the annual report. Full-time
executive directors should not take on more than one non-executive
directorship in a FTSE 100 company or other significant appointment.
16. All directors should have access to the advice of the company
secretary, who is responsible for advising the board on all governance
matters. Both the appointment and removal of the company secretary
should be a matter for the whole board.
Financial Reporting Council 8
3 COMPOSITION, SUCCESSION
AND EVALUATION
Provisions
17. The board should establish a nomination committee to lead the
process for appointments, ensure plans are in place for orderly
succession to both the board and senior management positions,
and oversee the development of a diverse pipeline for succession.
A majority of members of the committee should be independent
non-executive directors. The chair of the board should not chair the
committee when it is dealing with the appointment of their successor.
18. All directors should be subject to annual re-election. The board
should set out in the papers accompanying the resolutions to elect
each director the specific reasons why their contribution is, and
continues to be, important to the company’s long-term sustainable
success.
19. The chair should not remain in post beyond nine years from the date of
their first appointment to the board. To facilitate effective succession
planning and the development of a diverse board, this period can
be extended for a limited time, particularly in those cases where the
chair was an existing non-executive director on appointment. A clear
explanation should be provided.
20. Open advertising and/or an external search consultancy should
generally be used for the appointment of the chair and non-executive
directors. If an external search consultancy is engaged it should be
identified in the annual report alongside a statement about any other
connection it has with the company or individual directors.
4
 The definition of ‘senior management’ for this
purpose should be the executive committee or the
first layer of management below board level, including
the company secretary.
5
 Which protect against discrimination for those with
protected characteristics within the meaning of the
Equalities Act 2010.
Principles
J. Appointments to the board should be subject to a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure,
and an effective succession plan should be maintained for board and senior management.4
Both appointments and succession plans should be based on merit and objective criteria5
and, within this context, should promote diversity of gender, social and ethnic backgrounds,
cognitive and personal strengths.
K. The board and its committees should have a combination of skills, experience and knowledge.
Consideration should be given to the length of service of the board as a whole and membership
regularly refreshed.
L. Annual evaluation of the board should consider its composition, diversity and how effectively
members work together to achieve objectives. Individual evaluation should demonstrate
whether each director continues to contribute effectively.
9 UK Corporate Governance Code 2018
21. There should be a formal and rigorous annual evaluation of the
performance of the board, its committees, the chair and individual
directors. The chair should consider having a regular externally
facilitated board evaluation. In FTSE 350 companies this should
happen at least every three years. The external evaluator should be
identified in the annual report and a statement made about any other
connection it has with the company or individual directors.
22. The chair should act on the results of the evaluation by recognising
the strengths and addressing any weaknesses of the board. Each
director should engage with the process and take appropriate action
when development needs have been identified.
23. The annual report should describe the work of the nomination
committee, including:
• the process used in relation to appointments, its approach to
succession planning and how both support developing a diverse
pipeline;
• how the board evaluation has been conducted, the nature and
extent of an external evaluator’s contact with the board and
individual directors, the outcomes and actions taken, and how it
has or will influence board composition;
• the policy on diversity and inclusion, its objectives and linkage to
company strategy, how it has been implemented and progress on
achieving the objectives; and
• the gender balance of those in the senior management6
 and their
direct reports.
6
 See footnote 4.
Financial Reporting Council 10
4 AUDIT, RISK AND INTERNAL
CONTROL
Provisions
24. The board should establish an audit committee of independent
non-executive directors, with a minimum membership of three, or in
the case of smaller companies, two.8
 The chair of the board should
not be a member. The board should satisfy itself that at least one
member has recent and relevant financial experience. The committee
as a whole shall have competence relevant to the sector in which the
company operates.
25. The main roles and responsibilities of the audit committee should
include:
• monitoring the integrity of the financial statements of the company
and any formal announcements relating to the company’s
financial performance, and reviewing significant financial reporting
judgements contained in them;
• providing advice (where requested by the board) on whether the
annual report and accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced
and understandable, and provides the information necessary for
shareholders to assess the company’s position and performance,
business model and strategy;
• reviewing the company’s internal financial controls and internal
control and risk management systems, unless expressly addressed
by a separate board risk committee composed of independent
non-executive directors, or by the board itself;
• monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the company’s
internal audit function or, where there is not one, considering
annually whether there is a need for one and making a
recommendation to the board;
Principles
M. The board should establish formal and transparent policies and procedures to ensure the
independence and effectiveness of internal and external audit functions and satisfy itself on the
integrity of financial and narrative statements.7
N. The board should present a fair, balanced and understandable assessment of the company’s
position and prospects.
O. The board should establish procedures to manage risk, oversee the internal control framework,
and determine the nature and extent of the principal risks the company is willing to take in order
to achieve its long-term strategic objectives.
7
 The board’s responsibility to present a fair, balanced
and understandable assessment extends to interim
and other price-sensitive public records and reports
to regulators, as well as to information required to be
presented by statutory instruments.
8
 A smaller company is one that is below the FTSE 350
throughout the year immediately prior to the reporting
year.
11 UK Corporate Governance Code 2018
• conducting the tender process and making recommendations to
the board, about the appointment, reappointment and removal of
the external auditor, and approving the remuneration and terms of
engagement of the external auditor;
• reviewing and monitoring the external auditor’s independence and
objectivity;
• reviewing the effectiveness of the external audit process, taking
into consideration relevant UK professional and regulatory
requirements;
• developing and implementing policy on the engagement of the
external auditor to supply non-audit services, ensuring there is
prior approval of non-audit services, considering the impact this
may have on independence, taking into account the relevant
regulations and ethical guidance in this regard, and reporting to
the board on any improvement or action required; and
• reporting to the board on how it has discharged its responsibilities.
26. The annual report should describe the work of the audit committee,
including:
• the significant issues that the audit committee considered relating
to the financial statements, and how these issues were addressed;
• an explanation of how it has assessed the independence and
effectiveness of the external audit process and the approach
taken to the appointment or reappointment of the external auditor,
information on the length of tenure of the current audit firm, when a
tender was last conducted and advance notice of any retendering
plans;
• in the case of a board not accepting the audit committee’s
recommendation on the external auditor appointment,
reappointment or removal, a statement from the audit committee
explaining its recommendation and the reasons why the board
has taken a different position (this should also be supplied in any
papers recommending appointment or reappointment);
• where there is no internal audit function, an explanation for the
absence, how internal assurance is achieved, and how this affects
the work of external audit; and
• an explanation of how auditor independence and objectivity are
safeguarded, if the external auditor provides non-audit services.
27. The directors should explain in the annual report their responsibility
for preparing the annual report and accounts, and state that they
consider the annual report and accounts, taken as a whole, is
fair, balanced and understandable, and provides the information
necessary for shareholders to assess the company’s position,
performance, business model and strategy.
Financial Reporting Council 12
28. The board should carry out a robust assessment of the company’s
emerging and principal risks.9
 The board should confirm in the
annual report that it has completed this assessment, including a
description of its principal risks, what procedures are in place to
identify emerging risks, and an explanation of how these are being
managed or mitigated.
29. The board should monitor the company’s risk management and
internal control systems and, at least annually, carry out a review of
their effectiveness and report on that review in the annual report. The
monitoring and review should cover all material controls, including
financial, operational and compliance controls.
30. In annual and half-yearly financial statements, the board should
state whether it considers it appropriate to adopt the going concern
basis of accounting in preparing them, and identify any material
uncertainties to the company’s ability to continue to do so over a
period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the
financial statements.
31. Taking account of the company’s current position and principal risks,
the board should explain in the annual report how it has assessed
the prospects of the company, over what period it has done so and
why it considers that period to be appropriate. The board should
state whether it has a reasonable expectation that the company will
be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall
due over the period of their assessment, drawing attention to any
qualifications or assumptions as necessary.
9
 Principal risks should include, but are not necessarily
limited to, those that could result in events or
circumstances that might threaten the company’s
business model, future performance, solvency or
liquidity and reputation. In deciding which risks
are principal risks companies should consider the
potential impact and probability of the related events
or circumstances, and the timescale over which they
may occur.
13 UK Corporate Governance Code 2018
5 REMUNERATION
Provisions
32. The board should establish a remuneration committee of independent
non-executive directors, with a minimum membership of three,
or in the case of smaller companies, two.11 In addition, the chair
of the board can only be a member if they were independent on
appointment and cannot chair the committee. Before appointment
as chair of the remuneration committee, the appointee should have
served on a remuneration committee for at least 12 months.
33. The remuneration committee should have delegated responsibility
for determining the policy for executive director remuneration and
setting remuneration for the chair, executive directors and senior
management.12 It should review workforce13 remuneration and
related policies and the alignment of incentives and rewards with
culture, taking these into account when setting the policy for
executive director remuneration.
34. The remuneration of non-executive directors should be determined
in accordance with the Articles of Association or, alternatively, by the
board. Levels of remuneration for the chair and all non-executive
directors should reflect the time commitment and responsibilities
of the role. Remuneration for all non-executive directors should not
include share options or other performance-related elements.
35. Where a remuneration consultant is appointed, this should be the
responsibility of the remuneration committee. The consultant should
be identified in the annual report alongside a statement about any
other connection it has with the company or individual directors.
Independent judgement should be exercised when evaluating
the advice of external third parties and when receiving views from
executive directors and senior management.14
10 See footnote 4.
Principles
P. Remuneration policies and practices should be designed to support strategy and
promote long-term sustainable success. Executive remuneration should be aligned to company
purpose and values, and be clearly linked to the successful delivery of the company’s long-term
strategy.
Q. A formal and transparent procedure for developing policy on executive remuneration and
determining director and senior management10 remuneration should be established. No director
should be involved in deciding their own remuneration outcome.
R. Directors should exercise independent judgement and discretion when authorising remuneration
outcomes, taking account of company and individual performance, and wider circumstances.
11 See footnote 8.
12 See footnote 4.
13 See the Guidance on Board Effectiveness Section 5
for a description of ‘workforce’ in this context.
14 See footnote 4.
Financial Reporting Council 14
36. Remuneration schemes should promote long-term shareholdings by
executive directors that support alignment with long-term shareholder
interests. Share awards granted for this purpose should be released
for sale on a phased basis and be subject to a total vesting and
holding period of five years or more. The remuneration committee
should develop a formal policy for post-employment shareholding
requirements encompassing both unvested and vested shares.
37. Remuneration schemes and policies should enable the use of
discretion to override formulaic outcomes. They should also include
provisions that would enable the company to recover and/or withhold
sums or share awards and specify the circumstances in which it
would be appropriate to do so.
38. Only basic salary should be pensionable. The pension contribution
rates for executive directors, or payments in lieu, should be aligned
with those available to the workforce. The pension consequences
and associated costs of basic salary increases and any other changes
in pensionable remuneration, or contribution rates, particularly for
directors close to retirement, should be carefully considered when
compared with workforce arrangements.
39. Notice or contract periods should be one year or less. If it is
necessary to offer longer periods to new directors recruited from
outside the company, such periods should reduce to one year or less
after the initial period. The remuneration committee should ensure
compensation commitments in directors’ terms of appointment do
not reward poor performance. They should be robust in reducing
compensation to reflect departing directors’ obligations to mitigate
loss.
40. When determining executive director remuneration policy and
practices, the remuneration committee should address the following:
• clarity – remuneration arrangements should be transparent
and promote effective engagement with shareholders and the
workforce;
• simplicity – remuneration structures should avoid complexity and
their rationale and operation should be easy to understand;
• risk – remuneration arrangements should ensure reputational and
other risks from excessive rewards, and behavioural risks that
can arise from target-based incentive plans, are identified and
mitigated;
• predictability – the range of possible values of rewards to individual
directors and any other limits or discretions should be identified
and explained at the time of approving the policy;
15 UK Corporate Governance Code 2018
• proportionality – the link between individual awards, the delivery
of strategy and the long-term performance of the company should
be clear. Outcomes should not reward poor performance; and
• alignment to culture – incentive schemes should drive behaviours
consistent with company purpose, values and strategy.
41. There should be a description of the work of the remuneration
committee in the annual report, including:
• an explanation of the strategic rationale for executive directors’
remuneration policies, structures and any performance metrics;
• reasons why the remuneration is appropriate using internal and
external measures, including pay ratios and pay gaps;
• a description, with examples, of how the remuneration committee
has addressed the factors in Provision 40;
• whether the remuneration policy operated as intended in terms of
company performance and quantum, and, if not, what changes
are necessary;
• what engagement has taken place with shareholders and the
impact this has had on remuneration policy and outcomes;
• what engagement with the workforce has taken place to explain
how executive remuneration aligns with wider company pay policy;
and
• to what extent discretion has been applied to remuneration
outcomes and the reasons why.

