SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
17 CFR PARTS 211, 231 and 241
[Release Nos. 33-9106; 34-61469; FR-82]
Commission Guidance Regarding Disclosure Related to Climate Change
AGENCY: Securities and Exchange Commission.
ACTION: Interpretation.
SUMMARY: The Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC” or “Commission”) is
publishing this interpretive release to provide guidance to public companies regarding the
Commission’s existing disclosure requirements as they apply to climate change matters.
EFFECTIVE DATE: February 8, 2010.
FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Questions about specific filings should be
directed to staff members responsible for reviewing the documents the registrant files with the
Commission. For general questions about this release, contact James R. Budge at (202) 551-
3115 or Michael E. McTiernan, Office of Chief Counsel at (202) 551-3500, in the Division of
Corporation Finance, U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, 100 F Street, NE, Washington,
DC 20549.
SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION:
I. Background and purpose of interpretive guidance
A. Introduction
Climate change has become a topic of intense public discussion in recent years.
Scientists, government leaders, legislators, regulators, businesses, including insurance
companies, investors, analysts and the public at large have expressed heightened interest in
climate change. International accords, federal regulations, and state and local laws and










regulations in the U.S. address concerns about the effects of greenhouse gas emissions on our
environment,1
 and international efforts to address the concerns on a global basis continue.2 The
Environmental Protection Agency is taking action to address climate change concerns,3
 and
Congress is considering climate change legislation.4
 Some business leaders are increasingly
recognizing the current and potential effects on their companies’ performance and operations,
both positive and negative, that are associated with climate change and with efforts to reduce
greenhouse gas emissions.5
 Many companies are providing information to their peers and to the
public about their carbon footprints and their efforts to reduce them.6
1	 For a listing of state and local government laws and regulations in this field, see
http://www.epa.gov/climatechange/wycd/stateandlocalgov/index.html. Two significant international accords
related to this topic are the Kyoto Protocol, which was adopted in Kyoto, Japan, on December 11, 1997 and
became effective on February 16, 2005, and the European Union Emissions Trading System (EU ETS), which
was launched as an international “cap and trade” system of allowances for emitting carbon dioxide and other
greenhouse gases, built on the mechanisms set up under the Kyoto Protocol. See
http://unfccc.int/kyoto_protocol/items/2830.php and
http://ec.europa.eu/environment/climat/pdf/brochures/ets_en.pdf for a more detailed discussion of the Kyoto
Protocol and EU ETS, respectively.
2	 For example, in December 2009, Copenhagen, Denmark hosted the United Nations Climate Change
Conference.
3	 See e.g., Current and Near-Term Greenhouse Gas Reduction Initiatives, available at
www.epa.gov/climatechange/policy/neartermghgreduction.html, for a discussion of EPA initiatives as well as
other federal initiatives.
4	 See e.g., American Clean Energy and Security Act of 2009, H.R.2454, 111th Cong., 1st Sess. (2009), passed
by the House of Representatives on June 26, 2009, and Clean Energy Jobs and American Power Act of 2009,
S. 1733, 111th Cong., 1st Session (2009), introduced in the Senate September 30, 2009.
5	 See Appendix F to the Petition for Interpretive Guidance on Climate Risk Disclosure submitted September 18,
2007, File No. 4-547, for a sampling of comments by business leaders relating to climate change regulation
and disclosure, available at http://www.sec.gov/rules/petitions/2007/petn4-547.pdf.
6	 Companies are assessing and reporting on their greenhouse gas emissions and other climate change related
matters using standards and guidelines promulgated by organizations with specific expertise in the field.
Three such organizations are the Climate Registry, the Carbon Disclosure Project and the Global Reporting
Initiative. We discuss this in more detail below.
2









This release outlines our views with respect to our existing disclosure requirements as
they apply to climate change matters. This guidance is intended to assist companies in satisfying
their disclosure obligations under the federal securities laws and regulations.
B. Background
1. Recent regulatory, legislative and other developments
In the last several years, a number of state and local governments have enacted legislation
and regulations that result in greater regulation of greenhouse gas emissions.7
 Climate change
related legislation is currently pending in Congress. The House of Representatives has approved
one version of a bill,8
 and a similar bill was introduced in the Senate in the fall of 2009.9 This
legislation, if enacted, would limit and reduce greenhouse gas emissions through a “cap and
trade” system of allowances and credits, among other provisions.
The Environmental Protection Agency has been taking steps to regulate greenhouse gas
emissions. On January 1, 2010, the EPA began, for the first time, to require large emitters of
greenhouse gases to collect and report data with respect to their greenhouse gas emissions.10
This reporting requirement is expected to cover 85% of the nation’s greenhouse gas emissions
7	 For example, in California, the Global Warming Solutions Act of 2006 and regulatory actions by the
California Air Resources Board have resulted in restrictions on greenhouse gas emissions. In addition, state
and regional programs, such as the Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative (including ten Northeast and MidAtlantic states), the Western Climate Initiative (including seven Western states and four Canadian provinces)
and the Midwestern Greenhouse Gas Reduction Accord (including six states and one Canadian province) have
been developed to restrict greenhouse gas emissions. For a more detailed list of state action on climate
change, see Pew Center on Global Climate Change, States News (available at
http://www.pewclimate.org/states-regions/news?page=1).
8	 See American Clean Energy and Security Act of 2009.
9	 See Clean Energy Jobs and American Power Act of 2009.
10	 See Mandatory Reporting of Greenhouse Gases, Docket No. EPA–HQ–OAR–2008–0508, 74 FR 56260
(October 30, 2009).
3








generated by roughly 10,000 facilities.11 In December 2009, the EPA issued an “endangerment
and cause or contribute finding” for greenhouse gases under the Clean Air Act, which will allow
the EPA to craft rules that directly regulate greenhouse gas emissions.12
Some members of the international community also have taken actions to address climate
change issues on a global basis, and those actions can have a material impact on companies that
report with the Commission. One such effort in the 1990s resulted in the Kyoto Protocol.
Although the United States has never ratified the Kyoto Protocol, many registrants have
operations outside of the United States that are subject to its standards.13 Another important
international regulatory system is the European Union Emissions Trading System (EU ETS),
which was launched as an international “cap and trade” system of allowances for emitting carbon
dioxide and other greenhouse gases, based on mechanisms set up under the Kyoto Protocol.14 In
addition, the United States government is participating in ongoing discussions with other nations,
including the recent United Nations Climate Conference in Copenhagen, which may lead to
future international treaties focused on remedying environmental damage caused by greenhouse
11 See EPA Press Release “EPA Finalizes the Nation’s First Greenhouse Gas Reporting System / Monitoring to
begin in 2010” dated September 22, 2009, available at
http://yosemite.epa.gov/opa/admpress.nsf/d0cf6618525a9efb85257359003fb69d/194e412153fcffea852576390
0530d75!OpenDocument.
12	 Endangerment and Cause or Contribute Findings for Greenhouse Gases Under Section 202(a) of the Clean Air
Act, Docket ID No. EPA-HQ-OAR-2009-0171, 74 FR 66496 (December 15, 2009). The Clean Air Act is
found in 42 U.S.C. ch. 85.
13	 One of the major features of the Kyoto Protocol is that it sets binding targets for industrialized countries for
reducing greenhouse gas emissions. These amount to an average of five per cent against 1990 levels over the
five-year period 2008-2012.
14	 See n. 1, supra.
4








gas emissions. Those accords ultimately could have a material impact on registrants that file
disclosure documents with the Commission.15
The insurance industry is already adjusting to these developments. A 2008 study listed
climate change as the number one risk facing the insurance industry.16 Reflecting this
assessment, the National Association of Insurance Commissioners recently promulgated a
uniform standard for mandatory disclosure by insurance companies to state regulators of
financial risks due to climate change and actions taken to mitigate them.17 We understand that
insurance companies are developing new actuarial models and designing new products to
reshape coverage for green buildings, renewable energy, carbon risk management and directors’
and officers’ liability, among other actions.18
2. Potential impact of climate change related matters on public companies
For some companies, the regulatory, legislative and other developments noted above
could have a significant effect on operating and financial decisions, including those involving
capital expenditures to reduce emissions and, for companies subject to “cap and trade” laws,
15	 The terms of the Kyoto Protocol are set to expire in 2012. Ongoing international discussions, including the
United Nations Climate Change Conference held in Copenhagen, Denmark in mid-December 2009, are
intended to further develop a framework to carry on international greenhouse gas emission reduction standards
beyond 2012.
16	 Strategic business risk 2008 - Insurance , a report prepared by Ernst & Young and Oxford Analytica. See
Ernst & Young press release dated March 12, 2008, available at http://www.ey.com/GL/en/Newsroom/Newsreleases/Media---Press-Release---Strategic-Risk-to-Insurance-Industry.
17	 On March 17, 2009, the NAIC adopted a mandatory requirement that insurance companies disclose to
regulators the financial risks they face from climate change, as well as actions the companies are taking to
respond to those risks. All insurance companies with annual premiums of $500 million or more will be
required to complete an Insurer Climate Risk Disclosure Survey every year, with an initial reporting deadline
of May 1, 2010. The surveys must be submitted in the state where the insurance company is domesticated.
See Insurance Regulators Adopt Climate Change Risk Disclosure, available at
www.naic.org/Releases/2009_docs/climate_change_risk_disclosure_adopted.htm.
18	 See Klein, Christopher, Climate Change, Part IV: (Re)insurance Industry response, May 28, 2009, available at
www.gccapitalideas.com/2009/05/28/climate-change-part-iv-reinsurance-industry-response.
5



expenses related to purchasing allowances where reduction targets cannot be met. Companies
that may not be directly affected by such developments could nonetheless be indirectly affected
by changing prices for goods or services provided by companies that are directly affected and
that seek to reflect some or all of their changes in costs of goods in the prices they charge. For
example, if a supplier’s costs increase, that could have a significant impact on its customers if
those costs are passed through, resulting in higher prices for customers. New trading markets for
emission credits related to “cap and trade” programs that might be established under pending
legislation, if adopted, could present new opportunities for investment. These markets also could
allow companies that have more allowances than they need, or that can earn offset credits
through their businesses, to raise revenue through selling these instruments into those markets.
Some companies might suffer financially if these or similar bills are enacted by the Congress
while others could benefit by taking advantage of new business opportunities.
In addition to legislative, regulatory, business and market impacts related to climate
change, there may be significant physical effects of climate change that have the potential to
have a material effect on a registrant’s business and operations. These effects can impact a
registrant’s personnel, physical assets, supply chain and distribution chain. They can include the
impact of changes in weather patterns, such as increases in storm intensity, sea-level rise,
melting of permafrost and temperature extremes on facilities or operations. Changes in the
availability or quality of water, or other natural resources on which the registrant’s business
depends, or damage to facilities or decreased efficiency of equipment can have material effects
on companies.19 Physical changes associated with climate change can decrease consumer
For one view of the anticipated business-related physical risks resulting from climate change, see Industry
Update: Global Warming & the Insurance Industry -- Will Insurers Be Burned by the Climate Change
Phenomenon?, available at http://www.aon.com/about-aon/intellectual-capital/attachments/riskservices/will_insurers_be_burned_by_the_climate_change_phenomenon.pdf. Another example of how
6

19







20
demand for products or services; for example, warmer temperatures could reduce demand for
residential and commercial heating fuels, service and equipment.
For some registrants, financial risks associated with climate change may arise from
physical risks to entities other than the registrant itself. For example, climate change-related
physical changes and hazards to coastal property can pose credit risks for banks whose borrowers
are located in at-risk areas. Companies also may be dependent on suppliers that are impacted by
climate change, such as companies that purchase agricultural products from farms adversely
affected by droughts or floods.
3. Current sources of climate change related disclosures regarding public companies
There have been increasing calls for climate-related disclosures by shareholders of public
companies. This is reflected in the several petitions for interpretive advice submitted by large
institutional investors and other investor groups.20 The New York Attorney General’s Office
physical risks attributable to climate change are changing business and risk assessments is the Federal
Emergency Management Agency’s plan to update its risk mapping, assessment and planning to better reflect
the effects of climate change, such as changing rainfall data, and hurricane patterns and intensities. See “Risk
Mapping, Assessment, and Planning (Risk MAP): Fiscal Year 2009 Flood Mapping Production Plan,” Version
1, May 2009, available at http://www.fema.gov/library/viewRecord.do?id=3680.
See Petition for Interpretive Guidance on Climate Risk Disclosures, dated September 19, 2007, File No. 4-
547, available at http://www.sec.gov/rules/petitions/2007/petn4-547.pdf; supplemental petition dated June 12,
2008, available at http://www.sec.gov/rules/petitions/2008/petn4-547-supp.pdf; second supplemental petition
dated November 23, 2009, available at http://www.sec.gov/rules/petitions/2009/petn4-547-supp.pdf. For other
petitions on point, see also Petition for Interpretive Guidance on Business Risk of Global Warming
Regulation, submitted on behalf of the Free Enterprise Action Fund on October 22, 2007, File Number 4-549,
available at http://www.sec.gov/rules/petitions/2007/petn4-549.pdf. One petition urges the Commission to
issue guidance warning companies not to include information on climate change that may be false and
misleading; see Petition for Interpretive Guidance on Public Statements Concerning Global Warming and
Other Environmental Issues, submitted on behalf of the Free Enterprise Action Fund on July 21, 2008, File
No. 4-563, available at http://www.sec.gov/rules/petitions/2008/petn4-563.pdf. While not a formal petition,
Ceres has provided the Commission with the results of a study it commissioned in conjunction with the
Environmental Defense Fund regarding climate risk disclosure in SEC filings and suggests that the
Commission issue guidance on this topic. See Climate Risk Disclosure in SEC Filings: An Analysis of 10-K
Reporting by Oil and Gas, Insurance, Coal, and Transportation and Electric Power Companies, June 2009,
available at http://www.ceres.org/Document.Doc?id=473.
The Subcommittee on Securities, Insurance, and Investment of the Senate Committee on Banking, Housing,
and Urban Development held a hearing on corporate disclosure of climate-related issues on October 31, 2007;
representatives of signatories to the September 19, 2007 petition, among others, testified in that hearing. See
7









recently has entered into settlement agreements with three energy companies under its
investigation regarding their disclosures about their greenhouse gas emissions and potential
liabilities to the companies resulting from climate change and related regulation. The companies
agreed in the settlement agreements to enhance their disclosures relating to climate change and
greenhouse gas emissions in their annual reports filed with the Commission.21
Although some information relating to greenhouse gas emissions and climate change is
disclosed in SEC filings,22 much more information is publicly available outside of public
company disclosure documents filed with the SEC as a result of voluntary disclosure initiatives
or other regulatory requirements. For example, in addition to the disclosure requirements
mandated in several states23 and the disclosure that the EPA began requiring at the start of 2010,
The Climate Registry provides standards for and access to climate-related information. The
“Climate Disclosure: Measuring Financial Risks and Opportunities,” available at
http://banking.senate.gov/public/index.cfm?FuseAction=Hearings.Hearing&Hearing_ID=ed7a4968-1019-
411d-9a22-c193c6b689ea. Following the hearing, Senators Christopher Dodd and Jack Reed wrote to
Chairman Christopher Cox urging the Commission to issue guidance regarding climate disclosure. See
http://dodd.senate.gov/multimedia/2007/120607_CoxLetter.pdf.
21	 For information about the settlement agreements, see the New York Attorney General’s Office press releases
relating to: Xcel Energy, available at http://www.oag.state.ny.us/media_center/2008/aug/aug27a_08.html;
Dynegy Inc., available at http://www.oag.state.ny.us/media_center/2008/oct/oct23a_08.html; and AES
Corporation, available at http://www.oag.state.ny.us/media_center/2009/nov/nov19a_09.html.
22	 For example, in the electric utility industry, we have been informed by the Edison Electric Institute that 95%
of the member companies it recently surveyed reported that they included at least some disclosure related to
greenhouse gas emissions in their SEC filings, with 34% discussing quantities of greenhouse gases emitted
and 23% discussing costs of climate-related compliance. Registrants include this type of disclosure in the risk
factors, business description, legal proceedings, executive compensation, MD&A and financial statements
sections of their annual reports. The Edison Electric Institute is an association of U.S. shareholder-owned
electric companies. Their members serve 95 percent of the customers in the shareholder-owned segment of
the industry, and represent approximately 70 percent of the U.S. electric power industry. The EEI also
has more than 80 international electric companies as affiliate members, and nearly 200 industry suppliers and
related organizations as associate members. The EEI described the results of its survey in a presentation to
staff members of the Division of Corporation Finance.
23	 State requirements include CO2 emissions disclosure requirements for electricity providers, greenhouse gas
registries for reporting of entity emissions levels and emissions changes, and required reporting of greenhouse
gas emissions. For a discussion of specific state requirements, see
http://epa.gov/climatechange/wycd/stateandlocalgov/state_reporting.html.
8








Registry is a non-profit collaboration among North American states, provinces, territories and
native sovereign nations that sets standards to calculate, verify and publicly report greenhouse
gas emissions into a single public registry. The Registry supports both voluntary and statemandated reporting programs and provides data regarding greenhouse gas emissions.24
The Carbon Disclosure Project collects and distributes climate change information, both
quantitative (emissions amounts) and qualitative (risks and opportunities), on behalf of 475
institutional investors.25 Over 2500 companies globally reported to the Carbon Disclosure
Project in 2009; over 500 of those companies were U.S. companies. Sixty-eight percent of the
companies that responded to the Carbon Disclosure Project’s investor requests for information
made their reports available to the public.26
The Global Reporting Initiative has developed a widely used sustainability reporting
framework.27 That framework is developed by GRI participants drawn from business, labor and
professional institutions worldwide. The GRI framework sets out principles and indicators that
organizations can use to measure and report their economic, environmental, and social
performance, including issues involving climate change. Sustainability reports based on the GRI
framework are used to benchmark performance with respect to laws, norms, codes, performance
standards and voluntary initiatives, demonstrate organizational commitment to sustainable
development, and compare organizational performance over time.
24 The Climate Registry’s Web site is at www.theclimateregistry.org. Reports are publicly available through
their Web site at no charge. See http://www.theclimateregistry.org/resources/climate-registry-informationsystem-cris/public-reports/.
25 The Carbon Disclosure Project’s Web site is at www.cdproject.net.
26 These figures were provided to the Commission staff by representatives of the Carbon Disclosure Project.
27 The GRI’s Web site is at www.globalreporting.org.
9






These and other reporting mechanisms can provide important information to investors
outside of disclosure documents filed with the Commission. Although much of this reporting is
provided voluntarily, registrants should be aware that some of the information they may be
reporting pursuant to these mechanisms also may be required to be disclosed in filings made with
the Commission pursuant to existing disclosure requirements.
II. Historical background of SEC environmental disclosure
The Commission first addressed disclosure of material environmental issues in the early
1970s. The Commission issued an interpretive release stating that registrants should consider
disclosing in their SEC filings the financial impact of compliance with environmental laws,
based on the materiality of the information.28 Throughout the 1970s, the Commission continued
to explore the need for specific rules mandating disclosure of information relating to litigation
and other business costs arising out of compliance with federal, state and local laws that regulate
the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise relate to the protection of the
environment. These topics were the subject of several rulemaking efforts, extensive litigation,
and public hearings, all of which resulted in the rules that now specifically address disclosure of
environmental issues.29 The Commission adopted these rules, which we discuss below, in final
and current form in 1982, after a decade of evaluation and experience with the subject matter.30
Earlier, beginning in 1968, we began to develop and fine-tune our requirements for
management to discuss and analyze their company's financial condition and results of operations
28 Release No. 33-5170 (July 19, 1971) [36 FR 13989].
29 See Interpretive Release No. 33-6130 (September 27, 1979) [44 FR 56924] (the “1979 Release”), which
includes a brief summary of the legal and administrative actions taken with regard to environmental disclosure
during the 1970s. More information relating to the Commission's efforts in this area is chronicled in Release
No. 33-6315 (May 4, 1981) [46 FR 25638].
30 Release No. 33-6383 (March 3, 1982) [47 FR 11380].
10









in disclosure documents filed with the Commission.31 During the 1970s and 1980s, materiality
standards for disclosure under the federal securities laws also were more fully articulated.32
Those standards provide that information is material if there is a substantial likelihood that a
reasonable investor would consider it important in deciding how to vote or make an investment
decision, or, put another way, if the information would alter the total mix of available
information.33 In the articulation of the materiality standards, it was recognized that doubts as to
materiality of information would be commonplace, but that, particularly in view of the
prophylactic purpose of the securities laws and the fact that disclosure is within management's
control, “it is appropriate that these doubts be resolved in favor of those the statute is designed to
protect.”34 With these developments, registrants had clearer guidance about what they should
disclose in their filings.
More recently, the Commission reviewed its full disclosure program relating to
environmental disclosures in SEC filings in connection with a Government Accountability
Office review.35 The Commission also has had the opportunity to consider the thoughtful
31	 See Release No. 33-6835 (May 18, 1989) [54 FR 22427] (the “1989 Release”) and Release No. 33-8350
(December 19, 2003) [68 FR 75055] (the “2003 Release”) for detailed histories of Commission releases that
outline the background of, and interpret, our MD&A rules.
32	 See TSC Industries, Inc. v. Northway, Inc., 426 U.S. 438 (1976) (adopting a standard for materiality in
connection with proxy statement disclosures supported by the Commission, see id. at n. 10) and Basic Inc. v.
Levinson, 485 U.S. 224 (1988).
33	 Basic at 231, quoting TSC Industries at 449.
34	 TSC Industries at 448.
35	 “Environmental Disclosure: SEC Should Explore Ways to Improve Tracking and Transparency of
Information,” United States Government Accountability Office Report to Congressional Requesters, GAO-04-
808 (July 2004). Eleven years before, at the request of the Chairman of the House Committee on Energy and
Commerce, the GAO had prepared a report relating to environmental liability disclosure involving property
and casualty insurers and Superfund cleanup costs. See “Environmental Liability: Property and Casualty
Insurer Disclosure of Environmental Liabilities,” GAO/RCED-93-108 (June 1993), available at
http://74.125.93.132/search?q=cache:tWeHLDHoIcUJ:www.gao.gov/cgi-bin/getrpt%3FGAO/RCED-93-
108+GAO/RCED-93-108&cd=1&hl=en&ct=clnk&gl=us.
11







suggestions that many organizations have provided us recently about how the Commission could
direct registrants to enhance their disclosure about climate change related matters.36
III. Overview of rules requiring disclosure of climate change issues
When a registrant is required to file a disclosure document with the Commission, the
requisite form will largely refer to the disclosure requirements of Regulation S-K37 and
Regulation S-X.38 Securities Act Rule 408 and Exchange Act Rule 12b-20 require a registrant to
disclose, in addition to the information expressly required by Commission regulation, “such
further material information, if any, as may be necessary to make the required statements, in light
of the circumstances under which they are made, not misleading.”39 In this section, we briefly
describe the most pertinent non-financial statement disclosure rules that may require disclosure
related to climate change; in the following section, we discuss their application to disclosure of
certain specific climate change related matters.
A. Description of business.
Item 101 of Regulation S-K requires a registrant to describe its business and that of its
subsidiaries. The Item lists a variety of topics that a registrant must address in its disclosure
documents, including disclosure about its form of organization, principal products and services,
major customers, and competitive conditions. The disclosure requirements cover the registrant
and, in many cases, each reportable segment about which financial information is presented in
the financial statements. If the information is material to individual segments of the business, a
registrant must identify the affected segments.
36 See n. 20, supra.
37 17 CFR Part 229.
38 17 CFR Part 210.
39 17 CFR 230.408 and 17 CFR 240.12b-20.
12








Item 101 expressly requires disclosure regarding certain costs of complying with
environmental laws.40 In particular, Item 101(c)(1)(xii) states:
Appropriate disclosure also shall be made as to the material effects that compliance with
Federal, State and local provisions which have been enacted or adopted regulating the
discharge of materials into the environment, or otherwise relating to the protection of the
environment, may have upon the capital expenditures, earnings and competitive position
of the registrant and its subsidiaries. The registrant shall disclose any material estimated
capital expenditures for environmental control facilities for the remainder of its current
fiscal year and its succeeding fiscal year and for such further periods as the registrant
may deem material. 41
A registrant meeting the definition of “smaller reporting company” may satisfy its
disclosure obligation by providing information called for by Item 101(h). Item 101(h)(4)(xi)
requires disclosure of the “costs and effects of compliance with environmental laws (federal,
state and local).”42
 B. Legal proceedings.
Item 103 of Regulation S-K43 requires a registrant to briefly describe any material
pending legal proceeding to which it or any of its subsidiaries is a party. A registrant also must
describe material pending legal actions in which its property is the subject of the litigation.44 If a
registrant is aware of similar actions contemplated by governmental authorities, Item 103
40	 The Commission first addressed disclosure of material costs and other effects on business resulting from
compliance with existing environmental law in its first environmental disclosure interpretive release in 1971.
See Release 33-5170 (July 19, 1971) [36 FR 13989]. The Commission codified that interpretive position in
the disclosure forms two years later. See Release 33-5386 (April 20, 1973) [38 FR 12100]. The Commission
provided additional interpretive guidance in the 1979 Release. With some adjustments to reflect experience
with the subject matter, the requirements were moved to Item 101 in 1982, and they have not changed since
that time. See Release No. 33-6383 (March 3, 1982) [47 FR 11380].
41	 17 CFR 229.101(c)(1)(xii).
42	 17 CFR 229.101(h)(4)(xi).
43	 17 CFR 229.103.
44	 Id.
13







45
requires disclosure of those proceedings as well. A registrant need not disclose ordinary routine
litigation incidental to its business or other types of proceedings when the amount in controversy
is below thresholds designated in this Item.
Instruction 5 to Item 103 provides some specific requirements that apply to disclosure of
certain environmental litigation.45 Instruction 5 states:
Notwithstanding the foregoing, an administrative or judicial proceeding (including, for
purposes of A and B of this Instruction, proceedings which present in large degree the
same issues) arising under any Federal, State or local provisions that have been enacted
or adopted regulating the discharge of materials into the environment or primary for the
purpose of protecting the environment shall not be deemed "ordinary routine litigation
incidental to the business" and shall be described if:
(A) Such proceeding is material to the business or financial condition of the
registrant;
(B) Such proceeding involves primarily a claim for damages, or involves
potential monetary sanctions, capital expenditures, deferred charges or
charges to income and the amount involved, exclusive of interest and costs,
exceeds 10 percent of the current assets of the registrant and its subsidiaries
on a consolidated basis; or
(C) A governmental authority is a party to such proceeding and such proceeding
involves potential monetary sanctions, unless the registrant reasonably
believes that such proceeding will result in no monetary sanctions, or in
monetary sanctions, exclusive of interest and costs, of less than $100,000;
provided, however, that such proceedings which are similar in nature may
be grouped and described generically.
Instruction 5 in its current form was the product of the Commission’s experience with environmental litigation
disclosure. In 1973, we added provisions to the legal proceedings requirements of various disclosure forms
singling out legal actions involving environmental matters. See Release No. 33-5386 (Apr. 20, 1973) [38 FR
12100]. The new rules required disclosure of any pending legal proceeding arising under environmental laws
if a governmental entity was involved in the proceeding, and any other legal proceeding arising under
environmental laws unless it was not material, or if in a civil suit for damages, unless it involved less than
10% of the current assets of the registrant on a consolidated basis. The Commission provided additional
interpretive guidance regarding environmental litigation in the 1979 Release. When the Commission, in
connection with its development of the integrated disclosure system, moved these rules out of various forms
and into Item 103 of Regulation S-K, the Commission modified the requirements related to actions involving
governmental authorities to allow registrants to omit disclosure of a proceeding if they reasonably believed the
action would result in a monetary sanction of less than $100,000. See Release No. 33-6383 (Mar. 3, 1982) [47
FR 11380]. At the time, the Commission noted that the reason for the revision was to address the problem that
disclosure documents were being filled with descriptions of minor infractions that distracted from the other
material disclosures included in the document.
14







C. Risk factors.
Item 503(c) of Regulation S-K46 requires a registrant to provide where appropriate, under
the heading “Risk Factors,” a discussion of the most significant factors that make an investment
in the registrant speculative or risky. Item 503(c) specifies that risk factor disclosure should
clearly state the risk and specify how the particular risk affects the particular registrant;
registrants should not present risks that could apply to any issuer or any offering.47
D. Management's discussion and analysis.
Item 303 of Regulation S-K48 requires disclosure known as the Management's Discussion
and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, or MD&A. The MD&A
requirements are intended to satisfy three principal objectives:
• to provide a narrative explanation of a registrant's financial statements that enables
investors to see the registrant through the eyes of management;
• to enhance the overall financial disclosure and provide the context within which financial
information should be analyzed; and
• to provide information about the quality of, and potential variability of, a registrant's
earnings and cash flow, so that investors can ascertain the likelihood that past
performance is indicative of future performance.49
MD&A disclosure should provide material historical and prospective textual disclosure enabling
investors to assess the financial condition and results of operations of the registrant, with
46 17 CFR 229.503(c).
47 Id.
48 17 CFR 229.303.
49 2003 Release.
15







particular emphasis on the registrant's prospects for the future.50 Some of this information is
itself non-financial in nature, but bears on registrants' financial condition and operating
performance.
The Commission has issued several releases providing guidance on MD&A disclosure,
including on the general requirements of the item and its application to specific disclosure
matters.51 Over the years, the flexible nature of this requirement has resulted in disclosures that
keep pace with the evolving nature of business trends without the need to continuously amend
the text of the rule. Nevertheless, we and our staff continue to have to remind registrants,
through comments issued in the filing review process, public statements by staff and
Commissioners and otherwise, that the disclosure provided in response to this requirement
should be clear and communicate to shareholders management’s view of the company’s financial
condition and prospects.52
Item 303 includes a broad range of disclosure items that address the registrant's liquidity,
capital resources and results of operations. Some of these provisions, such as the requirement to
provide tabular disclosure of contractual obligations,53 clearly specify the disclosure required for
compliance. But others instead identify principles and require management to apply the
principles in the context of the registrant’s particular circumstances. For example, registrants
must identify and disclose known trends, events, demands, commitments and uncertainties that
50	 1989 Release.
51	 See, e.g., the 2003 Release; Release No. 33-8182 (Jan. 28, 2003) [68 FR 5982]; Release No. 33-8056 (Jan. 22,
2002) [67 FR 3746]; Release. No. 33-7558 (Jul. 29, 1998) [63 FR 41394]; and 1989 Release.
52	 See, e.g., speech by Commissioner Cynthia A. Glassman to the Corporate Counsel Institute (Mar. 9, 2006)
available at www.sec.gov/news/speech/spch030906cag.htm; and speech by Commissioner Elisse B. Walter to
the Corporate Counsel Institute (Oct. 2, 2009) available at
www.sec.gov/news/speech/2009/spch100209ebw.htm.
53	 17 CFR 229.303(a)(5).
16








are reasonably likely54 to have a material effect on financial condition or operating performance.
This disclosure should highlight issues that are reasonably likely to cause reported financial
information not to be necessarily indicative of future operating performance or of future financial
condition.55 Disclosure decisions concerning trends, demands, commitments, events, and
uncertainties generally should involve the:
• consideration of financial, operational and other information known to the registrant;
• identification, based on this information, of known trends and uncertainties; and
• assessment of whether these trends and uncertainties will have, or are reasonably likely
to have, a material impact on the registrant's liquidity, capital resources or results of
operations.56
The Commission has not quantified, in Item 303 or otherwise, a specific future time
period that must be considered in assessing the impact of a known trend, event or uncertainty
that is reasonably likely to occur. As with any other judgment required by Item 303, the
necessary time period will depend on a registrant’s particular circumstances and the particular
trend, event or uncertainty under consideration. For example, a registrant considering its
disclosure obligation with respect to its liquidity needs would have to consider the duration of its
known capital requirements and the periods over which cash flows are managed in determining
the time period of its disclosure regarding future capital sources.57 In addition, the time horizon
of a known trend, event or uncertainty may be relevant to a registrant’s assessment of the
54	 “Reasonably likely” is a lower disclosure standard than “more likely than not.” Release No. 33-8056 (Jan. 22,
2002) [67 FR 3746].
55	 2003 Release.
56	 Id.
57	 Id. at n.43.
17






materiality of the matter and whether or not the impact is reasonably likely. As with respect to
other subjects of disclosure, materiality “with respect to contingent or speculative information or
events . . . ‘will depend at any given time upon a balancing of both the indicated probability that
the event will occur and the anticipated magnitude of the event in light of the totality of the
company activity.’”58
The nature of certain MD&A disclosure requirements places particular importance on a
registrant’s materiality determinations. The Commission has recognized that the effectiveness of
MD&A decreases with the accumulation of unnecessary detail or duplicative or uninformative
disclosure that obscures material information.59 Registrants drafting MD&A disclosure should
focus on material information and eliminate immaterial information that does not promote
understanding of registrants’ financial condition, liquidity and capital resources, changes in
financial condition and results of operations.60 While these materiality determinations may limit
what is actually disclosed, they should not limit the information that management considers in
making its determinations. Improvements in technology and communications in the last two
decades have significantly increased the amount of financial and non-financial information that
management has and should evaluate, as well as the speed with which management receives and
is able to use information. While this should not necessarily result in increased MD&A
disclosure, it does provide more information that may need to be considered in drafting MD&A
disclosure. In identifying, discussing and analyzing known material trends and uncertainties,
registrants are expected to consider all relevant information even if that information is not
58 Basic at 238, quoting Texas Gulf Sulfur Co., 401 F. 2d 833 (2d Cir. 1968) at 849.
59 2003 Release.
60 Id.
18







required to be disclosed,61 and, as with any other disclosure judgments, they should consider
whether they have sufficient disclosure controls and procedures to process this information.62
Analyzing the materiality of known trends, events or uncertainties may be particularly
challenging for registrants preparing MD&A disclosure. As the Commission explained in the
1989 Release, when a trend, demand, commitment, event or uncertainty is known, “management
must make two assessments:
• Is the known trend, demand, commitment, event or uncertainty likely to come to
fruition? If management determines that it is not reasonably likely to occur, no
disclosure is required.
• If management cannot make that determination, it must evaluate objectively the
consequences of the known trend, demand, commitment, event or uncertainty, on the
assumption that it will come to fruition. Disclosure is then required unless management
determines that a material effect on the registrant's financial condition or results of
operations is not reasonably likely to occur.”63
61	 Id.
62	 Pursuant to Exchange Act Rules 13a-15 and 15d-15, a company's principal executive officer and principal
financial officer must make certifications regarding the maintenance and effectiveness of disclosure controls
and procedures. These rules define “disclosure controls and procedures” as those controls and procedures
designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by the company in the reports that it files or
submits under the Exchange Act is (1) “recorded, processed, summarized and reported, within the time periods
specified in the Commission's rules and forms,” and (2) “accumulated and communicated to the company's
management … as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.” As we have stated
before, a company’s disclosure controls and procedures should not be limited to disclosure specifically
required, but should also ensure timely collection and evaluation of “information potentially subject to
[required] disclosure,” “information that is relevant to an assessment of the need to disclose developments and
risks that pertain to the [company’s] businesses,” and “information that must be evaluated in the context of the
disclosure requirement of Exchange Act Rule 12b-20.” Release No. 33-8124 (Aug. 28, 2002) [67 FR 57276].
63	 1989 Release.
19






Identifying and assessing known material trends and uncertainties generally will require
registrants to consider a substantial amount of financial and non-financial information available
to them, including information that itself may not be required to be disclosed.64
Registrants should address, when material, the difficulties involved in assessing the effect
of the amount and timing of uncertain events, and provide an indication of the time periods in
which resolution of the uncertainties is anticipated.65 In accordance with Item 303(a), registrants
must also disclose any other information a registrant believes is necessary to an understanding of
its financial condition, changes in financial condition and results of operations.
E. Foreign private issuers.
The Securities Act and Exchange Act disclosure obligations of foreign private issuers are
governed principally by Form 20-F's66 disclosure requirements and not those under Regulation
S-K. However, most of the disclosure requirements applicable to domestic issuers under
Regulation S-K that are most likely to require disclosure related to climate change have parallels
under Form 20-F, although some of the requirements are not as prescriptive as the provisions
applicable to domestic issuers. For example, the following provisions of Form 20-F may require
a foreign private issuer to provide disclosure concerning climate change matters that are material
to its business:
• Item 3.D, which requires a foreign private issuer to disclose its material risks;
• Item 4.B.8, which requires a foreign private issuer to describe the material effects of
government regulation on its business and to identify the particular regulatory body;
64
65
66
2003 Release
Id.
17 CFR 249.220f.
20




• Item 4.D, which requires a foreign private issuer to describe any environmental issues
that may affect the company’s utilization of its assets;
• Item 5, which requires management’s explanation of factors that have affected the
company’s financial condition and results of operations for the historical periods
covered by the financial statements, and management’s assessment of factors and
trends that are anticipated to have a material effect on the company’s financial
condition and results of operations in future periods; and
• Item 8.A.7, which requires a foreign private issuer to provide information on any legal
or arbitration proceedings, including governmental proceedings, which may have, or
have had in the recent past, significant effects on the company’s financial position or
profitability.
Forms F-167 and F-3,68 Securities Act registration statement forms for foreign private
issuers, also require a foreign private issuer to provide the information, including risk factor
disclosure, required under Regulation S-K Item 503.
IV. Climate change related disclosures
In the previous section we summarized a number of Commission rules and regulations
that may be the source of a disclosure obligation for registrants under the federal securities laws.
Depending on the facts and circumstances of a particular registrant, each of the items discussed
above may require disclosure regarding the impact of climate change. The following topics are
some of the ways climate change may trigger disclosure required by these rules and
67 17 CFR 239.31.
68 17 CFR 239.33.
21



regulations.69 These topics are examples of climate change related issues that a registrant may
need to consider.
A. Impact of legislation and regulation.
As discussed above, there have been significant developments in federal and state
legislation and regulation regarding climate change. These developments may trigger disclosure
obligations under Commission rules and regulations, such as pursuant to Items 101, 103, 503(c)
and 303 of Regulation S-K. With respect to existing federal, state and local provisions which
relate to greenhouse gas emissions, Item 101 requires disclosure of any material estimated capital
expenditures for environmental control facilities for the remainder of a registrant’s current fiscal
year and its succeeding fiscal year and for such further periods as the registrant may deem
material. Depending on a registrant’s particular circumstances, Item 503(c) may require risk
factor disclosure regarding existing or pending legislation or regulation that relates to climate
change. Registrants should consider specific risks they face as a result of climate change
legislation or regulation and avoid generic risk factor disclosure that could apply to any
company. For example, registrants that are particularly sensitive to greenhouse gas legislation or
regulation, such as registrants in the energy sector, may face significantly different risks from
climate change legislation or regulation compared to registrants that currently are reliant on
products that emit greenhouse gases, such as registrants in the transportation sector.
Item 303 requires registrants to assess whether any enacted climate change legislation or
regulation is reasonably likely to have a material effect on the registrant’s financial condition or
In addition to the Regulation S-K items discussed in this section, registrants must also consider any financial
statement implications of climate change issues in accordance with applicable accounting standards, including
Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) Accounting Standards Codification Topic 450,
Contingencies, and FASB Accounting Standards Codification Topic 275, Risks and Uncertainties.
22

69





results of operation.70 In the case of a known uncertainty, such as pending legislation or
regulation, the analysis of whether disclosure is required in MD&A consists of two steps. First,
management must evaluate whether the pending legislation or regulation is reasonably likely to
be enacted. Unless management determines that it is not reasonably likely to be enacted, it must
proceed on the assumption that the legislation or regulation will be enacted. Second,
management must determine whether the legislation or regulation, if enacted, is reasonably likely
to have a material effect on the registrant, its financial condition or results of operations. Unless
management determines that a material effect is not reasonably likely,71 MD&A disclosure is
required.72 In addition to disclosing the potential effect of pending legislation or regulation, the
registrant would also have to consider disclosure, if material, of the difficulties involved in
assessing the timing and effect of the pending legislation or regulation.73
A registrant should not limit its evaluation of disclosure of a proposed law only to
negative consequences. Changes in the law or in the business practices of some registrants in
response to the law may provide new opportunities for registrants. For example, if a “cap and
trade” type system is put in place, registrants may be able to profit from the sale of allowances if
their emissions levels end up being below their emissions allotment. Likewise, those who are
not covered by statutory emissions caps may be able to profit by selling offset credits they may
qualify for under new legislation.
70 See 1989 Release.
71 Management should ensure that it has sufficient information regarding the registrant’s greenhouse gas
emissions and other operational matters to evaluate the likelihood of a material effect arising from the subject
legislation or regulation. See n. 62, supra.
72 In 2003 we issued additional guidance with respect to how registrants could improve MD&A disclosure,
including ideas about how to focus on material issues and how to present information in a more effective
manner to be of more value to investors. See 2003 Release.
23



Examples of possible consequences of pending legislation and regulation related to
climate change include:
• Costs to purchase, or profits from sales of, allowances or credits under a “cap and trade”
system;
• Costs required to improve facilities and equipment to reduce emissions in order to
comply with regulatory limits or to mitigate the financial consequences of a “cap and
trade” regime; and
• Changes to profit or loss arising from increased or decreased demand for goods and
services produced by the registrant arising directly from legislation or regulation, and
indirectly from changes in costs of goods sold.
We reiterate that climate change regulation is a rapidly developing area. Registrants need
to regularly assess their potential disclosure obligations given new developments.
B. International accords.
Registrants also should consider, and disclose when material, the impact on their business
of treaties or international accords relating to climate change. We already have noted the Kyoto
Protocol, the EU ETS and other international activities in connection with climate change
remediation. The potential sources of disclosure obligations related to international accords are
the same as those discussed above for U.S. climate change regulation. Registrants whose
businesses are reasonably likely to be affected by such agreements should monitor the progress
of any potential agreements and consider the possible impact in satisfying their disclosure
obligations based on the MD&A and materiality principles previously outlined.
See 2003 Release for a discussion of how companies should address, where material, the difficulties involved
in assessing the effect of the amount and timing of uncertain events.
24
73



C. Indirect consequences of regulation or business trends.
Legal, technological, political and scientific developments regarding climate change may
create new opportunities or risks for registrants. These developments may create demand for
new products or services, or decrease demand for existing products or services. For example,
possible indirect consequences or opportunities may include:
• Decreased demand for goods that produce significant greenhouse gas emissions;
• Increased demand for goods that result in lower emissions than competing products;74
• Increased competition to develop innovative new products;
• Increased demand for generation and transmission of energy from alternative energy
sources; and
• Decreased demand for services related to carbon based energy sources, such as drilling
services or equipment maintenance services.
These business trends or risks may be required to be disclosed as risk factors or in
MD&A. In some cases, these developments could have a significant enough impact on a
registrant’s business that disclosure may be required in its business description under Item 101.
For example, a registrant that plans to reposition itself to take advantage of potential
opportunities, such as through material acquisitions of plants or equipment, may be required by
Item 101(a)(1) to disclose this shift in plan of operation. Registrants should consider their own
particular facts and circumstances in evaluating the materiality of these opportunities and
obligations.
For example, recent legislation will ultimately phase out most traditional incandescent light bulbs. This has
resulted in the acceleration of the development and marketing of compact fluorescent light bulbs. See Energy
Independence and Security Act of 2007, Pub. L. No. 110-140, 121 Stat. 1492 (2007).
25

74




Another example of a potential indirect risk from climate change that would need to be
considered for risk factor disclosure is the impact on a registrant’s reputation. Depending on the
nature of a registrant’s business and its sensitivity to public opinion, a registrant may have to
consider whether the public’s perception of any publicly available data relating to its greenhouse
gas emissions could expose it to potential adverse consequences to its business operations or
financial condition resulting from reputational damage.
D. Physical impacts of climate change.
Significant physical effects of climate change, such as effects on the severity of weather
(for example, floods or hurricanes), sea levels, the arability of farmland, and water availability
and quality,75 have the potential to affect a registrant’s operations and results. For example,
severe weather can cause catastrophic harm to physical plants and facilities and can disrupt
manufacturing and distribution processes. A 2007 Government Accountability Office report
states that 88% of all property losses paid by insurers between 1980 and 2005 were weatherrelated.76 As noted in the GAO report, severe weather can have a devastating effect on the
financial condition of affected businesses. The GAO report cites a number of sources to support
the view that severe weather scenarios will increase as a result of climate change brought on by
an overabundance of greenhouse gases.
Possible consequences of severe weather could include:
75 See “Climate Change: Financial Risks to Federal and Private Insurers in Coming Decades Are Potentially
Significant: U.S. Government Accountability Office Report to the Committee on Homeland Security and
Governmental Affairs, U.S. Senate,” GAO-07-285 (March 2007).
76 Id. at p.17.
26










• For registrants with operations concentrated on coastlines, property damage and
disruptions to operations, including manufacturing operations or the transport of
manufactured products;
• Indirect financial and operational impacts from disruptions to the operations of major
customers or suppliers from severe weather, such as hurricanes or floods;
• Increased insurance claims and liabilities for insurance and reinsurance companies77;
• Decreased agricultural production capacity in areas affected by drought or other
weather-related changes; and
•	 Increased insurance premiums and deductibles, or a decrease in the availability of
coverage, for registrants with plants or operations in areas subject to severe weather.
Registrants whose businesses may be vulnerable to severe weather or climate related
events should consider disclosing material risks of, or consequences from, such events in their
publicly filed disclosure documents.
V. Conclusion
This interpretive release is intended to remind companies of their obligations under
existing federal securities laws and regulations to consider climate change and its consequences
as they prepare disclosure documents to be filed with us and provided to investors. We will
monitor the impact of this interpretive release on company filings as part of our ongoing
disclosure review program. In addition, the Commission’s Investor Advisory Committee78 is
77	 Many insurers already have plans in place to address the increased risks that may arise as a result of climate
change, with many reducing their near-term catastrophic exposure in both reinsurance and primary insurance
coverage along the Gulf Coast and the eastern seaboard. Id. at 32.
78	 The Investor Advisory Committee was formed on June 3, 2009 to advise the Commission on matters of
concern to investors in the securities markets, provide the Commission with investors’ perspectives on current,
non-enforcement, regulatory issues and serve as a source of information and recommendations to the
Commission regarding the Commission’s regulatory programs from the point of view of investors. See Press
27


considering climate change disclosure issues as part of its overall mandate to provide advice and
recommendations to the Commission, and the Commission is planning to hold a public
roundtable on disclosure regarding climate change matters in the spring of 2010. We will
consider our experience with the disclosure review program together with any advice or
recommendations made to us by the Investor Advisory Committee and information gained
through the planned roundtable as we determine whether further guidance or rulemaking relating
to climate change disclosure is necessary or appropriate in the public interest or for the
protection of investors.
VI. Codification Update
The "Codification of Financial Reporting Policies" announced in Financial Reporting
Release No. 1 (April 15, 1982) [47 FR 21028] is updated by adding new Section 501.15,
captioned “Climate change related disclosures,” and under that caption including the text in
Sections III and IV of this release.
The Codification is a separate publication of the Commission. It will not be published in
the Federal Register/Code of Federal Regulations.
List of Subjects
17 CFR Part 211
Reporting and recordkeeping requirements, Securities.
17 CFR Parts 231 and 241
Securities.
Release No. 2009-126, “SEC Announces Creation of Investor Advisory Committee,” available at
http://www.sec.gov/news/press/2009/2009-126.htm.
28
Amendments to the Code of Federal Regulations
For the reasons set forth above, the Commission is amending Title 17, Chapter II of the
Code of Federal Regulations as set forth below:
PART 211 -- INTERPRETATIONS RELATING TO FINANCIAL REPORTING MATTERS
1. Part 211, Subpart A, is amended by adding Release No. FR-82 and the release date of
February 2, 2010 to the list of interpretive releases.
PART 231 -- INTERPRETATIVE RELEASES RELATING TO THE SECURITIES ACT
OF 1933 AND GENERAL RULES AND REGULATIONS THEREUNDER
2. Part 231 is amended by adding Release No. 33-9106 and the release date of
February 2, 2010 to the list of interpretive releases.
PART 241 -- INTERPRETATIVE RELEASES RELATING TO THE SECURITIES
EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 AND GENERAL RULES AND REGULATIONS
THEREUNDER
3. Part 241 is amended by adding Release No. 34-61469 and the release date of
February 2, 2010 to the list of interpretive releases.
By the Commission
 Elizabeth M. Murphy
Secretary
Dated: February 2, 2010
29
 