SEC. 302. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY FOR FINANCIAL REPORTS.
(a) REGULATIONS REQUIRED.—The Commission shall, by rule,
require, for each company filing periodic reports under section 13(a)
or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78m,
78o(d)), that the principal executive officer or officers and the principal financial officer or officers, or persons performing similar
functions, certify in each annual or quarterly report filed or submitted under either such section of such Act that—
(1) the signing officer has reviewed the report;
(2) based on the officer’s knowledge, the report does not
contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to
state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements
made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading;
(3) based on such officer’s knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in the report,
fairly present in all material respects the financial condition
and results of operations of the issuer as of, and for, the
periods presented in the report;
(4) the signing officers—
(A) are responsible for establishing and maintaining
internal controls;
(B) have designed such internal controls to ensure
that material information relating to the issuer and its
consolidated subsidiaries is made known to such officers
by others within those entities, particularly during the
period in which the periodic reports are being prepared;
(C) have evaluated the effectiveness of the issuer’s
internal controls as of a date within 90 days prior to
the report; and
(D) have presented in the report their conclusions
about the effectiveness of their internal controls based on
their evaluation as of that date;
(5) the signing officers have disclosed to the issuer’s auditors and the audit committee of the board of directors (or
persons fulfilling the equivalent function)—
(A) all significant deficiencies in the design or operation
of internal controls which could adversely affect the issuer’s
ability to record, process, summarize, and report financial
data and have identified for the issuer’s auditors any material weaknesses in internal controls; and
(B) any fraud, whether or not material, that involves
management or other employees who have a significant
role in the issuer’s internal controls; and
(6) the signing officers have indicated in the report whether
or not there were significant changes in internal controls or
in other factors that could significantly affect internal controls
subsequent to the date of their evaluation, including any corrective actions with regard to significant deficiencies and material
weaknesses.
15 USC 7241.
VerDate 11-MAY-2000 09:34 Sep 09, 2004 Jkt 019194 PO 00000 Frm 00033 Fmt 6580 Sfmt 6581 O:\TURNEY\PUBL204.116 APPS10 PsN: PUBL204
116 STAT. 778 PUBLIC LAW 107–204—JULY 30, 2002
(b) FOREIGN REINCORPORATIONS HAVE NO EFFECT.—Nothing
in this section 302 shall be interpreted or applied in any way
to allow any issuer to lessen the legal force of the statement
required under this section 302, by an issuer having reincorporated
or having engaged in any other transaction that resulted in the
transfer of the corporate domicile or offices of the issuer from
inside the United States to outside of the United States.
(c) DEADLINE.—The rules required by subsection (a) shall be
effective not later than 30 days after the date of enactment of
this Act.

SEC. 403. DISCLOSURES OF TRANSACTIONS INVOLVING MANAGEMENT
AND PRINCIPAL STOCKHOLDERS.
(a) AMENDMENT.—Section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78p) is amended by striking the heading of
such section and subsection (a) and inserting the following:
‘‘SEC. 16. DIRECTORS, OFFICERS, AND PRINCIPAL STOCKHOLDERS.
‘‘(a) DISCLOSURES REQUIRED.—
‘‘(1) DIRECTORS, OFFICERS, AND PRINCIPAL STOCKHOLDERS
REQUIRED TO FILE.—Every person who is directly or indirectly
the beneficial owner of more than 10 percent of any class
of any equity security (other than an exempted security) which
is registered pursuant to section 12, or who is a director or
an officer of the issuer of such security, shall file the statements
required by this subsection with the Commission (and, if such
security is registered on a national securities exchange, also
with the exchange).
‘‘(2) TIME OF FILING.—The statements required by this subsection shall be filed—
‘‘(A) at the time of the registration of such security
on a national securities exchange or by the effective date
of a registration statement filed pursuant to section 12(g);
‘‘(B) within 10 days after he or she becomes such
beneficial owner, director, or officer;
‘‘(C) if there has been a change in such ownership,
or if such person shall have purchased or sold a securitybased swap agreement (as defined in section 206(b) of
the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act (15 U.S.C. 78c note)) involving
such equity security, before the end of the second business
day following the day on which the subject transaction
has been executed, or at such other time as the Commission
shall establish, by rule, in any case in which the Commission determines that such 2-day period is not feasible.
‘‘(3) CONTENTS OF STATEMENTS.—A statement filed—
‘‘(A) under subparagraph (A) or (B) of paragraph (2)
shall contain a statement of the amount of all equity securities of such issuer of which the filing person is the beneficial
owner; and
‘‘(B) under subparagraph (C) of such paragraph shall
indicate ownership by the filing person at the date of
filing, any such changes in such ownership, and such purchases and sales of the security-based swap agreements
as have occurred since the most recent such filing under
such subparagraph.
‘‘(4) ELECTRONIC FILING AND AVAILABILITY.—Beginning not
later than 1 year after the date of enactment of the SarbanesOxley Act of 2002—
‘‘(A) a statement filed under subparagraph (C) of paragraph (2) shall be filed electronically;
‘‘(B) the Commission shall provide each such statement
on a publicly accessible Internet site not later than the
end of the business day following that filing; and
Deadline.
Deadline.
VerDate 11-MAY-2000 09:34 Sep 09, 2004 Jkt 019194 PO 00000 Frm 00044 Fmt 6580 Sfmt 6581 O:\TURNEY\PUBL204.116 APPS10 PsN: PUBL204
PUBLIC LAW 107–204—JULY 30, 2002 116 STAT. 789
‘‘(C) the issuer (if the issuer maintains a corporate
website) shall provide that statement on that corporate
website, not later than the end of the business day following
that filing.’’.
(b) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendment made by this section
shall be effective 30 days after the date of the enactment of this
Act.
SEC. 404. MANAGEMENT ASSESSMENT OF INTERNAL CONTROLS.
(a) RULES REQUIRED.—The Commission shall prescribe rules
requiring each annual report required by section 13(a) or 15(d)
of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78m or 78o(d))
to contain an internal control report, which shall—
(1) state the responsibility of management for establishing
and maintaining an adequate internal control structure and
procedures for financial reporting; and
(2) contain an assessment, as of the end of the most recent
fiscal year of the issuer, of the effectiveness of the internal
control structure and procedures of the issuer for financial
reporting.
(b) INTERNAL CONTROL EVALUATION AND REPORTING.—With
respect to the internal control assessment required by subsection
(a), each registered public accounting firm that prepares or issues
the audit report for the issuer shall attest to, and report on, the
assessment made by the management of the issuer. An attestation
made under this subsection shall be made in accordance with standards for attestation engagements issued or adopted by the Board.
Any such attestation shall not be the subject of a separate engagement.
SEC. 405. EXEMPTION.
Nothing in section 401, 402, or 404, the amendments made
by those sections, or the rules of the Commission under those
sections shall apply to any investment company registered under
section 8 of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a–
8).

