Pillar 1 – Principles of Governance
Summary of key changes
Strengthening purpose
This iteration of metrics and disclosures features
a strengthened version of core and expanded
disclosures relating to the governing purpose
theme, reflecting broad-based feedback from both
reporting organizations and investors. The word
“societal” has been replaced with “economic,
environmental and social issues” to enhance clarity,
while a new expanded metric evaluates how a
company’s purpose is embedded in core aspects
of its business to address stated concerns about
“greenwashing”.
Economic, environmental and social
The metrics and disclosures under Principles
of Governance have been developed to ensure
corporate governance incorporates oversight of
the link between a company, broader sustainable
development or the UN’s Sustainable Development
Goals (SDGs), and long-term value creation.
To make this explicit, the chosen metrics and
disclosures now repeatedly specify a focus on
“economic, environmental and social” topics (the
three dimensions of sustainable development as
defined by GRI).
Accommodation of legal concerns
This version of metrics and disclosures
accommodates concerns about exposure to
litigation risk stemming from disclosure of certain
information, such as confidential information.
Where relevant, requests for supporting
disclosures have been added to give companies
greater latitude to tell a qualitative story alongside
(or in lieu of) quantitative metrics. These concerns
can also be addressed by the overarching
principle of “disclose or explain” as detailed in
this paper.
Measuring Stakeholder Capitalism: Towards Common Metrics and Consistent Reporting of Sustainable Value Creation 48
Governance: Core metrics and disclosures
Theme Governance: Core metrics and disclosures Sources
Governing
purpose
Setting purpose
The company’s stated purpose, as the expression of the
means by which a business proposes solutions to economic,
environmental and social issues. Corporate purpose should
create value for all stakeholders, including shareholders.
The British
Academy and
Colin Mayer,
GRI 102-26,
EPIC and others
Rationale
Oversight of a company’s chosen priorities in terms of economic, environmental and social issues requires
a clear understanding and articulation of the firm’s purpose. The more that firms can link their purpose and
core business, the better they can deliver long-term value for all stakeholders, including shareholders.
Additional commentary
There is emerging evidence that purpose-led firms outperform their peers in terms of shareholder value32
and are better positioned to account for and deliver economic, environmental and social value.
This disclosure calls for the articulation of the output of a process to formulate and publicize a purpose,
providing a useful baseline for whether firms are pursuing purpose or not. This disclosure was selected
over alternatives, including measures of investment aligned to purpose and the extent to which culture is
aligned to purpose, to reflect the primary need that still exists to comprehensively articulate purpose and
its link to economic, environmental and social value and long-term value creation. It is fundamental to
purpose-led outcomes, helps establish comparability across businesses and is the essential first step in
becoming a purpose-led business.
Purpose should define how a company creates value by addressing solutions to economic, environmental
and social issues, and ensures that it is not profiting from creating problems in these domains.
TABLE
Measuring Stakeholder Capitalism: Towards Common Metrics and Consistent Reporting of Sustainable Value Creation 49
Theme Governance: Core metrics and disclosures Sources
Quality of
governing body
Governance body composition
Composition of the highest governance body and its committees
by: competencies relating to economic, environmental and
social topics; executive or non-executive; independence; tenure
on the governance body; number of each individual’s other
significant positions and commitments, and the nature of the
commitments; gender; membership of under-represented social
groups; stakeholder representation.
GRI 102-22,
GRI 405-1a,
IR 4B
Rationale
The capabilities and perspectives of board members are important for making robust decisions on an
ongoing basis. This disclosure captures a variety of important dimensions to composition, going beyond a
single metric, and emphasizes competencies relating to economic, environmental and social topics.
Additional commentary
Research examining public companies across Canada, Latin America, the UK and the US has found
that companies with higher diversity financially outperform their peers.33 Crucially, boards that reflect
the diversity of their companies’ stakeholders are more attuned to their needs and are therefore wellpositioned to deliver long-term stakeholder value. This necessitates the inclusion of traditionally underrepresented social groups (see Glossary for definition of “under-represented social groups”). Although
these groups will vary based on a company’s context, it is important to consider racial and ethnic diversity.
This disclosure was chosen on the basis that it captures a breadth of dimensions critical to governance
body composition, including competencies related to economic, environmental and social topics.
Single measures of governance body composition are insufficient to determine whether a particular
corporation has the board fit for its particular needs. Practices for achieving greater diversity of board
member backgrounds and capabilities are relatively universal and well-established, and the disclosure is
comparatively easy to observe.
Reporting organizations will choose how to report based on materiality, as defined in this paper.
Additionally, reporting organizations will need to be mindful of local laws, which can shape or constrain the
way the standard cited here as a guideline is implemented. One possible and established way to consider
the diversity of skills represented on the governing body is through presentation of board member
qualifications, backgrounds and experiences in a “skills matrix”.34
Stakeholder
engagement
Material issues impacting stakeholders
A list of the topics that are material to key stakeholders and
the company, how the topics were identified and how the
stakeholders were engaged.
GRI 102-21,
GRI 102-43,
GRI 102-47
Rationale
This disclosure highlights the importance of the relationship between what is material to a firm and to
its stakeholders; it captures the output of a process to understand the impact of the company on its
stakeholders and the implications for the company.
Additional commentary
As organizations shift to becoming more purpose-led, so too will the definition and understanding of longterm value. The current shareholder-centric view of performance and value is already evolving into a more
holistic understanding of an organization’s impacts on a broad range of stakeholders. For this shift to have
a real impact, an organization needs to understand how its stakeholders are most affected by its decisions
and how this affects the business.
Conducting a materiality analysis is a vital step in understanding how an organization impacts its key
stakeholders and the implications for the business. It requires a company-specific identification of key
stakeholders and engagement with them to determine how they are affected by the company’s decisions
and actions. Explaining the steps required to undertake a materiality analysis (i.e. listing all identified
material topics and detailing how they impact stakeholders and company) and the process to identify and
engage with stakeholders helps validate the output.
The concept of materiality, as defined in this paper, guides prioritization, ensuring the disclosure is relevant
to stakeholders and the company. This disclosure facilitates board-level oversight of this critical area. It is
a means of maintaining accountability to a range of stakeholder groups, helping ensure that organizational
impact and long-term value align with the interests of a broad range of stakeholders and provide the
foundation for trust in the business. One possible way to disclose material issues impacting stakeholders
is through a “materiality matrix”.35
Measuring Stakeholder Capitalism: Towards Common Metrics and Consistent Reporting of Sustainable Value Creation 50
Theme Governance: Core metrics and disclosures Sources
Ethical behaviour Anti-corruption
1. Total percentage of governance body members, employees
and business partners who have received training on the
organization’s anti-corruption policies and procedures,
broken down by region.
2. a) Total number and nature of incidents of corruption
confirmed during the current year, but related to previous
years
b) Total number and nature of incidents of corruption
confirmed during the current year, related to this year.
3. Discussion of initiatives and stakeholder engagement to
improve the broader operating environment and culture, in
order to combat corruption.
GRI 205-2,
GRI 205-3
Rationale
Corruption undermines stakeholder legitimacy and trust; it is linked to misallocation of capital,
environmental harm, human exploitation and unethical and illegal behaviour.
Anti-corruption training and investment in initiatives to improve both operating environment and culture
develop a company’s anti-corruption capabilities. The total number and nature of corruption incidents are
a proxy for the effectiveness of a company’s overarching anti-corruption culture and capabilities.
Additional commentary
Corporate corruption can thrive where governance is weak. The public expects companies to adhere to
ethical business practices. Companies implementing anti-corruption policies and practices contribute
directly towards the vision of SDG 16.5 to “substantially reduce corruption and bribery in all their forms”,
protecting their own long-term value and their contribution to long-term societal value.
Monitoring the number and proportion of new corruption incidents unrelated to previous years, in
comparison to incidents related to previous years, provides some insight into changes over time of
this effectiveness. These metrics were chosen for their orientation to outcomes and their comparability
between companies and over time.
Reporting organizations will need to be mindful of local laws, which can shape or constrain the way the
standard cited here as a guideline is implemented.
Ethical behaviour Protected ethics advice and reporting mechanisms
A description of internal and external mechanisms for:
1. Seeking advice about ethical and lawful behaviour and
organizational integrity; and
2. Reporting concerns about unethical or unlawful behaviour
and lack of organizational integrity.
GRI 102-17
Rationale
This disclosure focuses on the ongoing ability of a company to both prevent and remedy ethical issues.
Additional commentary
This disclosure identifies the mechanisms (e.g. whistleblowing procedures) in place to receive input on
ethics topics and reports of potential issues, and the ways in which these mechanisms are managed or
protected to encourage robust advice and reporting. Protected ethics advice and reporting mechanisms
demonstrate an authentic intent by the board and management to explain and promote ethical and legal
conduct and prevent unethical or illegal conduct. This disclosure was chosen for its universal applicability
and allows for comparison and evaluation of board commitment to the oversight of ethical behaviour.
Without a mechanism for employees and other key stakeholders to ask questions about or to report
potential or actual unethical or unlawful behaviour, companies may miss opportunities to identify and
mitigate underlying issues. Companies that encourage their stakeholders to provide feedback can respond
more quickly to misconduct, build trust with their stakeholders and prevent harm to long-term value.
Measuring Stakeholder Capitalism: Towards Common Metrics and Consistent Reporting of Sustainable Value Creation 51
Theme Governance: Core metrics and disclosures Sources
Risk and
opportunity
oversight
Integrating risk and opportunity into business process
Company risk factor and opportunity disclosures that clearly
identify the principal material risks and opportunities facing the
company specifically (as opposed to generic sector risks), the
company appetite in respect of these risks, how these risks and
opportunities have moved over time and the response to those
changes. These opportunities and risks should integrate material
economic, environmental and social issues, including climate
change and data stewardship.
EPIC,
GRI 102-15,
World Economic
Forum Integrated
Corporate
Governance,
IR 4D
Rationale
This disclosure focuses on company-specific risks and opportunities, the onus on the board to oversee
management of those risks and opportunities, and the corporate response over time as they change; it
provides broad, management- and board-centred insight.
Additional commentary
A clear understanding and synthesis of corporate appetite, board oversight and management’s enterprise
risk management systems in relation to key emerging risks and opportunities (specifically those related to
economic, environmental and social issues) is fundamental to long-term value creation. This disclosure
was selected on the basis that it acknowledges the requirement for the board to be directly involved with
management in understanding and reacting to material risks and opportunities and the need to observe
how the board and management adapt their positions over time.
This disclosure acknowledges traditional risk management and the need for boards and management to
look beyond risks to the opportunities provided to the business by emerging issues, and specifically those
related to economic, environmental and social issues.
Climate change and data stewardship are critical aspects of this disclosure, as they affect long-term
value for almost all companies, but are typically under-reported. As noted by the World Business Council
for Sustainable Development (WBCSD), “in a time of climate emergency, it’s important for businesses
to…consider the transformational changes and associated transition risks needed to achieve climate
resilience”.36 Data stewardship is also critical for most companies. It includes responsibility for personal
data, as well as the use and governance of artificial intelligence and cybersecurity. The financial and
reputational impact when companies fail to consider data stewardship can be substantial.37
Measuring Stakeholder Capitalism: Towards Common Metrics and Consistent Reporting of Sustainable Value Creation 52
Theme Governance: Expanded metrics and disclosures Sources
Governing
purpose
Purpose-led management
How the company’s stated purpose is embedded in company
strategies, policies and goals.
GRI 102-26
Rationale
Embedding purpose within the company’s strategy and policies is necessary to realizing its stated benefits
for all stakeholders, including shareholders.
Additional commentary
Providing the opportunity for companies to show how their stated purpose is integrated in the business
strengthens the validity of their purpose statements, provides an opportunity to counter claims of
“greenwashing” and is a useful indication of a company’s long-term value creation potential.
Quality of
governing body
Progress against strategic milestones
Disclosure of the material strategic economic, environmental and
social milestones expected to be achieved in the following year,
such milestones achieved from the previous year, and how those
milestones are expected to or have contributed to long-term value.
EPIC
Rationale
An outcome-oriented measure of board and management quality, this disclosure focuses on the company’s
achievement of its stated objectives. This disclosure combines both leading and lagging indicators of the
board’s oversight and management’s ability to set, guide and execute the company’s strategy.
Additional commentary
Achievement of strategic milestones in the past year provides a useful proxy of the board’s and
management’s ability to oversee the organization’s achievement of its strategic objectives, including
purpose. Strategic milestones for the year ahead allow stakeholders to more effectively evaluate the
quality of decision-making by the board and management and the extent to which that decision-making is
consistent with the purpose and objectives of the firm.
Quality of
governing body
Remuneration
1. How performance criteria in the remuneration policies relate
to the highest governance body’s and senior executives’
objectives for economic, environmental and social topics, as
connected to the company’s stated purpose, strategy and
long-term value.
2. Remuneration policies for the highest governance body and
senior executives for the following types of remuneration:
– Fixed pay and variable pay, including performance-based
pay, equity-based pay, bonuses and deferred or vested
shares
– Sign-on bonuses or recruitment incentive payments
– Termination payments
– Clawbacks
– Retirement benefits, including the difference between benefit
schemes and contribution rates for the highest governance
body, senior executives and all other employees
GRI 102-35
Rationale
The incentives provided to board members and senior executives, and the way they are structured, can
significantly reinforce or impede long-term value creation. Importantly, this disclosure requires the reporting
organization to explicitly address how its approach to remuneration relates to the organization’s economic,
environmental and social objectives.
Additional commentary
If remuneration is incongruent with long-term objectives, including a combination of commercial and
societal value creation, it can undermine the ability of governance bodies to provide effective oversight.
This disclosure is an important advanced indicator of board quality, providing detailed insight into the
various mechanisms for remuneration and how they are applied. Disclosing how incentives for governing
bodies are aligned to long-term value serves as a useful indication of the organization’s ability to achieve
that value. This level of disclosure provides valuable insight for external stakeholders in evaluating the
alignment of different aspects of governance and fosters increased transparency and trust.
TABLE Governance: Expanded metrics and disclosures
Measuring Stakeholder Capitalism: Towards Common Metrics and Consistent Reporting of Sustainable Value Creation 53
Theme Governance: Expanded metrics and disclosures Sources
Ethical behaviour Alignment of strategy and policies to lobbying
The significant issues that are the focus of the company’s
participation in public policy development and lobbying; the
company’s strategy relevant to these areas of focus; and any
differences between its lobbying positions and its purpose,
stated policies, goals or other public positions.
GRI 415: Public
Policy 2016
Rationale
Consistency between corporate activity related to lobbying and the firm’s publicly stated purpose and
strategy is a core component of alignment on long-term objectives, which in turn is essential for longterm value creation. Monitoring this consistency is an important element of overall transparency and the
authentic pursuit of the company’s objectives.
Additional commentary
To create long-term value, corporate behaviour needs to conform to existing norms but also to align with the
corporation’s long-term objectives, both commercial and societal. This disclosure is a critical advanced indicator
of corporate behaviour, by providing insight into the extent to which lobbying and advocacy (an important
but potentially damaging area of corporate activity for stakeholders) is not only permissible but aligned to the
company’s publicly stated objectives and purpose. Reporting organizations will need to be mindful of local laws,
which can shape or constrain the way the standard cited here as a guideline is implemented.
Ethical behaviour Monetary losses from unethical behaviour
Total amount of monetary losses as a result of legal proceedings
associated with fraud, insider trading, anti-trust, anti-competitive
behaviour, market manipulation, malpractice or violations of
other related industry laws or regulations.
SASB 510a.1
Rationale
This metric is a critical advanced indicator of ethical behaviour, focusing on the company’s observed
behaviour and relying on outside parties (regulators) and a robust formal process (enforcement and the
courts) to assess that behaviour. Additionally, measurement in monetary terms facilitates comparison
across firms.
Additional commentary
To assess the ethical standing of a company, it is important to monitor the processes in place to foster
the right culture and behaviours, as well as the extent to which these processes are adhered to over time.
Violations of laws governing corporate behaviour are a useful proxy for assessing this adherence.
Risk and
opportunity
oversight
Economic, environmental and social topics in capital allocation
framework
How the highest governance body considers economic,
environmental and social issues when overseeing major capital
allocation decisions, such as expenditures, acquisitions and
divestments.
CDSB REQ-02
Rationale
This disclosure is an important way to gauge the quality of risk and opportunity oversight and the extent to
which it incorporates economic, environmental and social considerations. Capital allocation is at the core
of any business model and illustrates the company’s longer-term priorities; as such it is a leading indicator
of long-term value creation.
Additional commentary
Robust governance of both risks and opportunities, with the goal of long-term value creation, must
engage with the way those risks and opportunities are embedded in the business. 
Governance
Clawback Repayment of previously received compensation
required to be made by an executive to his or her
employer in the event certain conditions of employment
or goals are not met
GRI: 102-35,
Glossary
Principles of Governance,
Expanded: Remuneration
Confirmed
incident of
corruption
Incident of corruption that has been found to be
substantiated.
Note: Confirmed incidents of corruption do not include
incidents of corruption that are still under investigation
in the reporting period.
GRI: 205-3,
Glossary
Principles of Governance, Core:
Anti-corruption
Corruption Abuse of entrusted power for private gain, which can be
instigated by individuals or organizations.
Note: In the GRI Standards, corruption includes practices
such as bribery, facilitation payments, fraud, extortion,
collusion and money laundering. It also includes an
offer or receipt of any gift, loan, fee, reward, or other
advantage to or from any person as an inducement to
do something that is dishonest, illegal, or a breach of
trust in the conduct of the enterprise’s business. This can
include cash or in-kind benefits, such as free goods, gifts
and holidays, or special personal services provided for
the purpose of an improper advantage, or that can result
in moral pressure to receive such an advantage.
GRI: 205-2, GRI
205-3, Glossary
Principles of Governance, Core:
Anti-corruption
Governance
body (alt.
governing
body)
Committee or board responsible for the strategic
guidance of the organization, the effective monitoring of
management and the accountability of management to
the broader organization and its stakeholders
GRI: 102-22,
205-2, 405-1a,
Glossary
Principles of Governance, Core:
– Governance body
composition
– Anti-corruption
Principles of Governance,
Expanded: Economic,
environmental and social topics
in capital allocation framework
Highest
governance
body
Formalized group of persons charged with ultimate
authority in an organization.
Note: In instances where the highest governance body
consists of two tiers, both tiers are to be included.
GRI: 102-22, 102-
35, Glossary
Principles of Governance, Core:
– Governance body
composition
– Anti-corruption
Principles of Governance,
Expanded:
– Remuneration
– Economic, environmental
and social topics in capital allocation framework
Impact In the GRI Standards, unless otherwise stated,
“impact” refers to the effect an organization has on the
economy, the environment, and/or society, which in
turn can indicate its contribution (positive or negative) to
sustainable development.
Note 1: In the GRI Standards, the term “impact” can
refer to positive, negative, actual, potential, direct,
indirect, short-term, long-term, intended, or unintended
impacts.
Note 2: Impacts on the economy, environment, and/
or society can also be related to consequences for
the organization itself. For example, an impact on the
economy, environment, and/or society can lead to
consequences for the organization’s business model,
reputation, or ability to achieve its objectives.
GRI: 102-47,
Glossary
Principles of Governance,
Core: Material issues impacting
stakeholders
Losses
(monetary)
All monetary liabilities to the opposing party or to others
(whether as the result of settlement or verdict after
trial or otherwise), including fines and other monetary
liabilities incurred during the reporting period as a result
of civil actions (e.g. civil judgments or settlements),
regulatory proceedings (e.g. penalties, disgorgement, or
restitution) and criminal actions (e.g. criminal judgment,
penalties, or restitution) brought by any entity (e.g.
governmental, business, or individual).
SASB: 510a.1 Principles of Governance,
Expanded: Monetary losses
from unethical behaviour
Remuneration Basic salary plus additional amounts paid to a worker.
Note: Examples of additional amounts paid to a worker
can include those based on years of service, bonuses
including cash and equity such as stocks and shares,
benefit payments, overtime, time owed and any
additional allowances, such as transportation, living and
childcare allowances.
GRI: 102-35,
Glossary
Principles of Governance,
Expanded: Remuneration
Stakeholder Entity or individual that can reasonably be expected to
be significantly affected by the reporting organization’s
activities, products and services, or whose actions
can reasonably be expected to affect the ability of the
organization to successfully implement its strategies
and achieve its objectives.
Note 1: Stakeholders include entities or individuals
whose rights under law or international conventions
provide them with legitimate claims vis-à-vis the
organization.
Note 2: Stakeholders can include those who are
invested in the organization (such as employees
and shareholders), as well as those who have other
relationships to the organization (such as other workers
who are not employees, suppliers, vulnerable groups,
local communities and NGOs or other civil society
organizations, among others).
GRI: 102-21,
102-43, 102-47,
102-22, 205-3,
Glossary
Principles of Governance, Core:
– Setting Purpose
– Governance body
composition
– Anti-corruption
– Material issues impacting
stakeholders
Termination
payment
All payments made and benefits given to a departing
executive or member of the highest governance body
whose appointment is terminated.
Note: Termination payments extend beyond monetary
payments to the giving of property and the automatic
or accelerated vesting of incentives given in connection
with a person’s departure from office.
GRI: 102-35,
Glossary
Principles of Governance,
Expanded: Remuneration
Topic Economic, environmental or social subject.
Note 1: In the GRI Standards, topics are grouped
according to the three dimensions of sustainable
development: economic, environmental and social.
Note 2: To prepare a report in accordance with the GRI
Standards, an organization is required to report on its
material topics.
GRI: 102-21,
102-22, 102-35,
102-47, Glossary
Principles of Governance, Core:
– Governance body
composition
– Material issues impacting
stakeholders
Principles of Governance,
Expanded: Remuneration
Underrepresented
social group
Population that, relative to its numbers in a given
society, has less opportunity to express its economic,
social, or political needs and views.
GRI: 102-22,
Glossary
Principles of Governance, Core:
Governance body composition

