Pillar 3 – People
Summary of key changes
The majority of respondents to the consultation
survey ranked all the core metrics as either important
or highly important, indicating strong support for the
core metrics across all themes (Dignity and equality,
Health and well-being, and Skills for the future).
In the core metrics, the principal changes arising
from the feedback and other developments were as
follows:
– Introduction of CEO pay ratio into wage level
metric
– Transfer of the quantitative element of child and
forced labour from core metric to expanded
metric
– Modification of the health and safety metric to
include disclosure of provision of non-occupational
medical and healthcare services to workforce
– During the six-month consultation period, the
Black Lives Matter movement took hold and it
became important to respond by introducing
ethnicity into the pay equality metric
In the expanded metrics, the main changes based
on the feedback were as follows:
– Introduction of the ratio of the annual total
compensation for the highest-paid individual in
each country to the median compensation in
that country
– As with the core metrics, the expanded set saw
the introduction of a pay gap metric based on
gender and other indicators of diversity
– The quantitative aspects of human right issues,
such as assessments and incidents, have been
introduced into the expanded metrics
– The training metric was modified to measure
investment level and effectiveness of training
rather than number of people trained
In response to feedback received, some additional
commentary has been included for both core and
expanded metrics and a Glossary of definitions of
key terms has been added.
Measuring Stakeholder Capitalism: Towards Common Metrics and Consistent Reporting of Sustainable Value Creation 64
People: Core metrics and disclosures
Theme People: Core metrics and disclosures Sources
Dignity and
equality
Diversity and inclusion (%)
Percentage of employees per employee category, by age group,
gender and other indicators of diversity (e.g. ethnicity).
GRI 405-1b
Rationale
Empowering and promoting social and economic inclusion, irrespective of age, sex, disability, race,
ethnicity, origin, religion or other status is an important aspect of good people management. Gender
and ethnic/cultural diversity, particularly within executive teams, are closely correlated to both financial
and non-financial performance and enhance the stability of companies across the globe. More diverse
companies are better able to innovate, attract top talent, improve their customer orientation, enhance
employee satisfaction and secure a licence to operate. Inclusion and diversity are likely to become core to
an organization’s business model in the future. Companies that focus on improving inclusion and diversity
in their workforce can reap both tangible and intangible benefits.
Additional commentary
Ethnicity issues have received renewed focus with recent events across the globe, including the Black
Lives Matter movement. Reporting on these aspects provides an opportunity to identify disparities within
the organization and helps improve the culture across the value chain. The suggested age groups for
reporting on this disclosure are: under 30 years old, 30-50 years old and over 50 years old.
Dignity and
equality
Pay equality (%)
Ratio of the basic salary and remuneration for each employee
category by significant locations of operation for priority areas
of equality: women to men, minor to major ethnic groups, and
other relevant equality areas.
Adapted from
GRI 405-2
Rationale
Corporate policies promoting pay equality reflect an organization’s culture and help companies bridge
diversity gaps, attract talent and drive long-term competitiveness. Inclusion and diversity can only be
achieved by promoting equal pay and by providing equal remuneration for the same jobs, to address
social disparity and to maximize professional opportunities for all people irrespective of gender, colour,
caste, creed, religion and other diversity aspects. Organizations in which racial and other discrimination
imbalances exist expose themselves to reputational and potential legal risk.
Additional commentary
Refer to the guidance provided in the GRI Standard 405 for reporting on this metric. For reporting on
ethnic pay equality, adopt a methodology similar to GRI 405-2, focusing on ethnic groups. The major and
minor ethnic group would be based on the significant locations of organizations’ operations.
TABLE
Measuring Stakeholder Capitalism: Towards Common Metrics and Consistent Reporting of Sustainable Value Creation 65
Theme People: Core metrics and disclosures Sources
Dignity and
equality
Wage level (%)
1. Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to
local minimum wage.
2. Ratio of the annual total compensation of the CEO to the
median of the annual total compensation of all its employees,
except the CEO.
GRI 202-1,
Adapted from
Dodd-Frank
Act, US SEC
Regulations
Rationale
Fair compensation and benefits contribute to the economic well-being of employees, since the distribution
of wages and income is crucial for eliminating inequality and poverty. A wide gap between the highestpaid individual and the median reinforces inequality and could impede long-term value creation. Focus
on pay ratios improves corporate governance and will help ensure that CEO pay is fair and appropriate
in relation to the rest of the workforce. Disclosure will provide greater insight into how companies are
spending on top-management, their basis for doing so and the opportunity costs that might impact their
performance (e.g. investment in research and development or staff training) and therefore encourage the
organization to raise compensation for low- and middle-income employees.
Additional commentary
The organization should disclose this indicator for employees who are compensated based on wages
subject to minimum wage rules. It can report the relevant ratio of entry-level wage to minimum wage by
gender at significant locations of operations. If a local minimum wage is absent or variable at significant
locations of operation, by gender, use different minimums as a reference and report which minimum is
used for calculating the ratio.
Executive compensation disclosure rules require companies to disclose the ratio of the annual total
compensation of the CEO to the median of the annual total compensation of all its employees, except the
CEO. To identify the median compensation of all the employees, companies can select a methodology
based on their own facts and circumstances. A company could, for example, identify the median of
its population or sample using annual total compensation as determined under existing executive
compensation rules, or any consistently applied compensation measure from compensation amounts
reported in its payroll or tax records.
Dignity and
equality
Risk for incidents of child, forced or compulsory labour
An explanation of the operations and suppliers considered
to have significant risk for incidents of child labour, forced or
compulsory labour. Such risks could emerge in relation to:
a) type of operation (such as manufacturing plant) and type of
supplier
b) countries or geographic areas with operations and suppliers
considered at risk
GRI 408-1b,
GRI 409-1a
Rationale
Child labour and forced or compulsory labour are violations of fundamental human rights and have been
identified as a hindrance to development. There is a strong link between poverty and child labour, which
can lower the standard of living across generations. The ripple effects arising from these issues can
translate into legal and reputational risk for the companies, especially those with extensive value chains.
Eliminating child labour, forced labour and human trafficking requires businesses, financial institutions
and civil society to take strong action and address its root causes. This indicator provides an overview of
where a company is identifying these significant human rights risks and gives the company the opportunity
to explain its approach to risk management of these issues and how it is addressing these risks in the
entire value chain.
Additional commentary
For more information refer to GRI Standards 408 and 409 guidance document.
Measuring Stakeholder Capitalism: Towards Common Metrics and Consistent Reporting of Sustainable Value Creation 66
Theme People: Core metrics and disclosures Sources
Health and
well‑being
Health and safety (%)
The number and rate of fatalities as a result of work-related
injury; high-consequence work-related injuries (excluding
fatalities); recordable work-related injuries; main types of workrelated injury; and the number of hours worked.
An explanation of how the organization facilitates workers’
access to non-occupational medical and healthcare services,
and the scope of access provided for employees and workers.
GRI:2018
403-9a&b,
GRI:2018
403-6a
Rationale
Maintaining strong standards of health, safety and labour rights can improve employee productivity
and operational efficiency and enhance employee well-being. Working proactively in these areas of
business will help identify and mitigate potential risks, and it is increasingly required by law. Mental
health and emotional wellbeing, as components of overall worker health and safety, are becoming
increasingly important to drive innovation and deliver goods and services that are reliant on human capital.
Organizations that invest in non-occupational medical and healthcare services would demonstrate to their
employees that they care and look after them. This would result in a purposeful, resilient and growthoriented workforce.
Additional commentary
1. For all employees and workers who are not employees but whose work and/or workplace is controlled
by the organization, report the following:
– The number and rate of fatalities as a result of work-related injury
– The number and rate of high-consequence work-related injuries (excluding fatalities)
– The number and rate of recordable work-related injuries
– The main types of work-related injury
– The number of hours worked
For calculation for the rate of work-related injury, high consequence work-related injuries and recordable
work-related injuries refer to GRI:2018 403-9 for guidance.
2. Provide an explanation of how the organization facilitates workers’ access to non-occupational medical
and healthcare services, and the scope of access provided for all employees and workers. Employees’
and workers’ access to non-occupational medical and healthcare services might be facilitated through,
for example, company clinics, disease treatment programmes, referral systems, health insurance or
financial contributions.
When describing the scope of access to non-occupational medical and healthcare services provided,
specify the types of service to which access is facilitated and the types of workers that have access to
them. For more information refer to GRI:2018 403-6 guidance documents.
Measuring Stakeholder Capitalism: Towards Common Metrics and Consistent Reporting of Sustainable Value Creation 67
Theme People: Core metrics and disclosures Sources
Skills for the
future
Training provided (#, $)
1. Average hours of training per person that the organization’s
employees have undertaken during the reporting period, by
gender and employee category (total number of hours of training
provided to employees divided by the number of employees).
2. Average training and development expenditure per full time
employee (total cost of training provided to employees
divided by the number of employees).
GRI 404-1,
SASB HC 101-
15
Rationale
A skilled workforce improves a company’s performance, contributes to employee satisfaction and
enhances human capital. It is a key priority for all companies today. When firms fail to invest in training,
education, skilling and reskilling of their workforce, it can affect their business performance, reputation
and ability to attract talent. It can also lead to higher operating costs related to recruiting, developing and
retaining employees. The quantum of training needs to be a healthy mix that helps employees to upskill,
learn and review issues that are industry-relevant. Providing the right mix of training to employees on
technical and behavioural aspects will nurture business growth and help develop a competitive edge.
Additional commentary
1. Report average hours of training that company employees have undertaken during the reporting
period, by gender and employee category. In the context of this metric, training refers to:
– All types of vocational training and instruction
– Paid educational leave provided by an organization for its employees
– Training or education pursued externally, paid for in whole or in part by an organization
– Training on specific topics
– Reskilling of employees as per market requirements
– Note: training does not include on-site coaching by supervisors
2. Provide information on the training and development expenditure per full time employee. This
includes the expenditure for professional qualifications (such as credentialing programmes and board
certification), advanced industry education (such as degree and certificate programmes directly related
to job function) and all other categories of training, as mentioned above. For more information refer to
GRI 404-1 guidance and SASB HC101-15
Measuring Stakeholder Capitalism: Towards Common Metrics and Consistent Reporting of Sustainable Value Creation 68
People: Expanded metrics and disclosures
Theme People: Expanded metrics and disclosures Sources
Dignity and
equality
Pay gap (%, #)
1. Mean pay gap of basic salary and remuneration of full-time
relevant employees based on gender (women to men)
and indicators of diversity (e.g. BAME to non-BAME) at a
company level or by significant location of operation.
2. Ratio of the annual total compensation for the organization’s
highest-paid individual in each country of significant operations
to the median annual total compensation for all employees
(excluding the highest-paid individual) in the same country.
Adapted from
UK Government
guidance on
gender and
ethnicity pay gap
reporting,44
GRI 102-38
Rationale
The pay gap metric is considered a potential indicator of organizational structural inequality and underrepresentation of disadvantaged groups in senior and higher paid roles. Research has shown that women
and people from ethnic minorities tend to earn less and be in less-senior roles. This is often associated
with social disadvantage and is arguably also caused by discrimination. A migrant workforce may have
a poor command of the local language, possess qualifications that are not generally recognized by
employers and be unfamiliar with the regional culture; these factors affect pay and position. Addressing
this issue will create pathways towards a greater variety of roles in the workforce and will positively change
how businesses promote talent and distribute pay at all levels.
A wide gap between the highest-paid individual and the median reinforces inequality and could impede
long-term value creation. Depending on how the organization is structured, it can become a crucial factor
in enabling investors to make appropriate decisions.
Additional commentary
Guidance on the requirements and the gender pay gap calculation method is provided by the UK Government
Equalities Office as well as by other organizations such as the UK Chartered Institute of Personnel and
Development (CIPD). Companies should apply the same methodology to calculate an ethnicity pay gap, being
the difference in the average rate of pay between BAME (or other relevant ethnic categorization) workers and
non-BAME workers expressed as a percentage of the pay of non-BAME workers.
Companies should disclose the ratio of the annual total compensation for the organization’s highestpaid individual in each country of significant operations to the median annual total compensation for
all employees (excluding the highest-paid individual) in the same country. Calculate by considering the
median annual compensation of all employees at each level.
Dignity and
equality
Discrimination and harassment incidents (#) and the total
amount of monetary losses ($)
1. Number of discrimination and harassment incidents, status
of the incidents and actions taken.
2. Total amount of monetary losses as a result of legal
proceedings associated with:
a) law violations, and
b) employment discrimination
GRI 406-1,
Adapted from
SASB FR310a.4
Rationale
Organizational culture needs to be built on a foundation of respect, courtesy and professionalism, free
from any acts of discrimination, bullying or harassment. Employers are responsible for dealing effectively
and fairly with situations involving claims and incidents of harassment or discrimination. Commitment
to eliminating discrimination and harassment in the workplace helps reduce inequalities and promotes
organizational cultures that focus on performance and merit.
Additional commentary
1. Report on total number of discrimination and harassment incidents, status of the incidents and
remediation measures taken.
2. Report the total amount of monetary losses incurred during the reporting period as a result of legal
proceedings associated with (1) labour law violations and (2) employment discrimination. Labour
violation is defined as violations including, but not limited to, those relating to wages, work hours,
overtime and meal and rest breaks.
While disclosing information on this metric, include incidents of discrimination on the grounds of race,
color, sex, religion, political opinion, national extraction or social origin as defined by the ILO, or other
relevant forms of discrimination involving internal and/or external stakeholders across operations in the
reporting period. For additional information refer to GRI 406-1 guidance and SASB FB–FR–310a.4.
TABLE
Measuring Stakeholder Capitalism: Towards Common Metrics and Consistent Reporting of Sustainable Value Creation 69
Theme People: Expanded metrics and disclosures Sources
Dignity and
equality
Freedom of association and collective bargaining at risk (%)
1. Percentage of active workforce covered under collective
bargaining agreements.
2. An explanation of the assessment performed on suppliers
for which the right to freedom of association and collective
bargaining is at risk, including measures taken by the
organization to address these risks.
SASB CN0401-
17,
GRI 407-1,
WDI 7.2
Rationale
A responsible business respects the human rights of its workers, including their right to exercise freedom of
association and collective bargaining. It is important to have a proper governance structure in place which
embraces these human rights and makes it possible to promote and realize decent conditions at work. Freedom
of association and collective bargaining are the basis for all human rights in the workplace (e.g. living wage,
decent work conditions, equal opportunities). Organizations that support these rights internally and externally
across the value chain can better mitigate the risk of potential conflicts as well as safeguard business continuity.
Additional commentary
1. Report on the percentage of the active workforce covered under collective bargaining agreements. The
active workforce is defined as the maximum number of unique employees employed at any time during
the fiscal year. The scope includes all personnel employed by the registrant, including full-time, part-time
and temporary employees.
2. Workers’ rights to exercise freedom of association or collective bargaining may be violated or at
significant risk either in terms of type of operations and countries or geographic areas. Disclose the
information related and provide the remediation measures taken in the reporting period to support and
protect the rights of collective bargaining across the value chain.
Dignity and
equality
Human rights review, grievance impact and modern
slavery (#, %)
1. Total number and percentage of operations that have been
subject to human rights reviews or human rights impact
assessments, by country.
2. Number and type of grievances reported with associated
impacts related to a salient human rights issue in the
reporting period and an explanation on type of impacts.
3. Number and percentage of operations and suppliers
considered to have significant risk for incidents of child
labour, forced or compulsory labour. Such risks could
emerge in relation to:
a) type of operation (such as manufacturing plant) and type
of supplier; or
b) countries or geographic areas with operations and
suppliers considered at risk.
GRI 412-1,
UN Guiding
Principles,
Adapted from
GRI 408-1a and
GRI 409-1,
WDI 7.5
Rationale
Organizational activities may cause or contribute to an environment of social abuse that violates the human
rights of individuals, workers and communities. Without a mechanism for employees and other key stakeholders
to report human rights violations, companies could miss opportunities to identify and mitigate such underlying
issues. Companies that encourage stakeholders to provide feedback can respond more quickly to misconduct,
build trust with them and prevent harm to long-term value. Eliminating forced labour remains an important
challenge as it perpetuates poverty and is a hindrance to economic and human development. Companies that
associate with modern slavery in any form will damage their reputation, brand and even licence to operate. It is
extremely important for companies to engage with this topic and assess the risk across their value chain.
Additional commentary
1. Disclose information on the total number and percentage of operations that have been subject to
human rights reviews or human rights impact assessments, by country. For additional information refer
to GRI 412-1. Perform human rights due diligence across the value chain to report on this aspect.
2. Disclose information related to grievances, including number and type of grievances reported, with
associated impacts related to a salient human rights issues in the reporting period. Additionally,
disclose the types of impacts that occurred (both direct and indirect). Mention any monetary losses
associated with these impacts.
3. Disclose information on the number and percentage of operations and suppliers considered to be at
significant risk of incidents of child, forced or compulsory labour by type of operation and supplier;
and by countries or geographic areas with operations and suppliers considered at risk. To ensure the
accuracy and mitigate the risk, perform risk assessments across upstream and downstream activities.
For more information, refer to GRI 412-1, UN Guiding Principles, GRI 408-1a, GRI 409-1 and WDI 7.5.
Measuring Stakeholder Capitalism: Towards Common Metrics and Consistent Reporting of Sustainable Value Creation 70
Theme People: Expanded metrics and disclosures Sources
Dignity and
equality
Living wage (%)
Current wages against the living wage for employees and
contractors in states and localities where the company is operating.
MIT Living Wage
Tool,
EPIC
Rationale
Companies that offer a living wage to workers and employees can help lift households and communities
out of poverty. A living wage provides a benchmark for responsible employers who respect human
rights and who choose to pay their employees a rate that meets the basic cost of living in the region
they operate in. The provision of a living wage could strengthen the organizations’ reputation, reduce
employee turnover and lower the risk of strike action by workers.
Additional commentary
Living wage is defined as a wage sufficient to meet the basic standards of living, which will vary by
country, local living standards and need. Information and references for a living wage are available at MIT’s
Living Wage Calculator.45 For locations not in the US, refer to the Living Wage Foundation46 or to “Living
Wages Around the World: Manual for Measurement”, by Richard and Martha Anker.
Health and
well‑being
Monetized impacts of work-related incidents on organization (#, $)
By multiplying the number and type of occupational incidents
by the direct costs for employees, employers per incident
(including actions and/or fines from regulators, property damage,
healthcare costs, compensation costs to employees).
Adapted
indicator based
on European
Commission,
Safe Work
Australia
Rationale
A safe workplace is crucial for companies to maintain employees’ morale and stay competitive. The
financial impacts of workplace accidents can destabilize companies and their business models. Measuring
the direct impacts of these accidents will enable companies to reduce their negative impacts on
employees, business and society. The cost of work-related accidents and ill-health helps substantiate the
business case for investments in occupational health and safety.
Additional commentary
Report on monetized impacts incurred due to work-related incidents during the reporting period. Calculate
by multiplying the number and type of occupational incidents (e.g. injuries to employees, structural
damage in the organization etc.) with direct costs incurred by the organization. This includes costs directly
attributed to the accident, e.g. direct costs from compensation payments, first aid and medical expenses,
wages of the victim, material damages, payment of indemnity benefits, workers’ compensation and other
benefits, medical benefits for the injured worker (e.g. workers’ compensation and other health benefits),
return-to-work programmes, workers’ compensation insurance premiums, injury prevention programmes,
and costs of compliance, among others.
Health and
well‑being
Employee well-being (%)
1. The number of fatalities as a result of work-related ill-health,
recordable work-related ill-health injuries and the main types
of work-related ill-health for all employees and workers.
2. a) Percentage of employees participating in “best practice”
health and well-being programmes, and
b) Absentee rate (AR) of all employees.
GRI:2018
403-10a&b,
EPIC,
Adapted from
GRI:2016
403-2a
Rationale
There is a growing recognition that the well-being of employees has a positive impact on organizational
success as well as on employee health, professional fulfilment and quality of life. Research has consistently
shown that employee well-being predicts job attitudes and performance. It has important implications for
productivity and work relationships. Having a hygienic, safe and healthy workplace culture contributes to a
high-performing organization with employees who are socially integrated.
Additional commentary
1. Report on the following information for all employees and workers who are not employees, but whose
work and/or workplace is controlled by the organization:
– The number of fatalities as a result of work-related ill-health
– The number of cases of recordable work-related ill-health
– The main types of work-related ill-health
2. Disclose information on the percentage of employees participating in “best practice” health and wellbeing programmes. Well-being programmes are categorized under lifestyle management, disease
management and access to healthcare. Report on the absenteeism rate (AR) for all employees.
For more information refer to GRI:2016 403-2b and Embankment Project, EPIC Report page 46.
Measuring Stakeholder Capitalism: Towards Common Metrics and Consistent Reporting of Sustainable Value Creation 71
Theme People: Expanded metrics and disclosures Sources
Skills for the
future
Number of unfilled skilled positions (#, %)
1. Number of unfilled skilled positions (#).
2. Percentage of unfilled skilled positions for which the
company will hire unskilled candidates and train them (%).
WBCSD
Measuring Impact
Framework
Methodology
Version 1.0
(2008)
Rationale
The rapid changes in global markets and business models including technology have led to a rise in skills
gaps. It is imperative for organizations to identify skills gaps and train employees to bridge the gaps. It
is paramount for organizations, society and investors alike to measure the effects of available skills and
learning. A company will be rewarded in the market based on the value it generates for its stakeholders.
Investing in relevant training programmes will help organizations fill vacant skilled positions, thereby
improving productivity and reducing employee turnover.
Additional commentary
1. Report on the number of unfilled skilled positions (a skilled position is unfilled if it is vacant for 90 days).
2. Report on the percentage of unfilled skilled positions for which the company hires unskilled candidates
and trains them.
Organizations can use the regional definition for “skilled” as per the location they operate in. For more
information refer to WBCSD’s impact framework, page 59.
Skills for the
future
Monetized impacts of training – Increased earning capacity as a
result of training intervention (%, $)
1. Investment in training as a percentage (%) of payroll.
2. Effectiveness of the training and development through
increased revenue, productivity gains, employee engagement
and/or internal hire rates.
Adapted from
OECD, 47 48
WDI 5.5
Rationale
Training affects valuation and creates a pressure for change. It can be leveraged for innovation and used to
improve performance and manage human capital. Enhancing skills through relevant investments in training
and monitoring the effectiveness of training will enhance productivity, reduce employee turnover and
contribute to an organization’s capacity to create long-term value.
Additional commentary
1. Report on the investment made in training as a percentage of payroll. This analyses how much
reskilling investment is made to enhance the capabilities of the workforce and make them future-ready.
2. Companies are encouraged to provide any quantitative or qualitative measures of the impact of training
and development on the business and its workforce (e.g. through increased revenue, productivity
gains, employee engagement and/or internal hire rates or return on investment). Regarding internal
hires, report the proportion of internal hires at company level and proportion by employee category.
For reporting on training return on investment, use the DJSI human capital return on investment
methodology or the Kirkpatrick Model.
Measuring Stakeholder Capitalism: Towards Common Metrics and Consistent Reporting of Sustainable Value Creation 72

People
Absentee Worker absent from work because of incapacity of
any kind, not just as the result of work-related injury or
disease
Note: Absentee excludes permitted leave absences
such as holidays, study, maternity or paternity leave
and compassionate leave.
GRI 403-2 (2016),
Glossary
People, Expanded: Well-being
Absentee rate Measure of actual absentee days lost, expressed as a
percentage of total days scheduled to be worked by
workers for the same period (The total absentee days
lost divided by the total days scheduled to be worked
by employees during the reporting period, expressed as
a percentage)
Note: Absentee rate can be calculated for a specific
category of workers (e.g. employees). This is specified
in the respective disclosure in the GRI Standards.
GRI 403-2, 2016
Glossary
People, Expanded: Well-being
Age group – Under 30 years old
– 30-50 years old
– Over 50 years old
GRI Disclosure
401-1
People, Core: Diversity and
inclusion
Prosperity, Core: Absolute
number and rate of
employment
Annual total
compensation
Compensation provided over the course of a year.
Annual total compensation can include compensation
such as salary, bonus, stock awards, option awards,
non-equity incentive plan compensation, change in
pension value and nonqualified deferred compensation
earnings and all other compensation.
GRI 102-38
Glossary
People, Core: Wage Level
People, Expanded: Pay Gap
Child Person under the age of 15 years, or under the age of
completion of compulsory schooling, whichever is higher.
Note 1: Exceptions can occur in certain countries
where economies and educational facilities are
insufficiently developed and a minimum age of 14 years
applies. These countries of exception are specified by
the International Labour Organization (ILO) in response
to a special application by the country concerned and
in consultation with representative organizations of
employers and workers.
Note 2: The ILO Convention 138, “Minimum Age
Convention”, 1973, refers to both child labour and
young workers.
GRI 408-1
Glossary , ILO
Convention
People, Core: Risk for incidents
of child, forced or compulsory
labour
People, Expanded: Human
rights review, grievance impact
& modern slavery
Chronic
disease
management
Chronic disease management includes supporting
employees to manage chronic non-communicable
diseases (these include for example, heart disease,
hypertension, diabetes, mental health). Following a
baseline health assessment (anonymized) the company
then supports and intervenes where appropriate (e.g.
access to flu shots, helplines).
Embankment
Project, EPIC
Report (Page 47)
People, Expanded: Well-being
Discrimination Act and result of treating persons unequally by imposing
unequal burdens or denying benefits instead of treating
each person fairly on the basis of individual merit.
Note: Discrimination can also include harassment, defined
as a course of comments or actions that are unwelcome,
or should reasonably be known to be unwelcome, to the
person towards whom they are addressed.
GRI 406-1
Glossary
People, Expanded:
Discrimination and harassment
incidents and the total amount
of monetary losses
Entry level
wage
Full-time wage in the lowest employment category
Note: Intern or apprentice wages are not considered
entry level wages.
GRI 202-1
Glossary
People, Core: Wage Leve
Forced or
compulsory
labour
All work and service that is exacted from any person
under the menace of any penalty and for which the said
person has not offered herself or himself voluntarily.
Note 1: The most extreme examples of forced or
compulsory labour are slave labour and bonded labour,
but debts can also be used as a means of maintaining
workers in a state of forced labour.
Note 2: Indicators of forced labour include withholding
identity papers, requiring compulsory deposits and
compelling workers, under threat of firing, to work extra
hours to which they have not previously agreed.
Note 3: This definition is based on International Labour
Organization (ILO) Convention 29, “Forced Labour
Convention”, 1930.
GRI 409-1
Glossary
People, Core: Risk for incidents
of child, forced or compulsory
labour
People, Expanded: Human
rights review, grievance impact
& modern slavery
Formal
agreement
Written document signed by both parties declaring a
mutual intention to abide by what is contained in the
documents.
Note: A formal agreement can include, for example, a
local collective bargaining agreement, or a national or
international framework agreement.
GRI 407-1
Glossary
People, Expanded: Freedom
of association and collective
bargaining at risk
Freedom of
association
Right of employers and workers to form, to join and to
run their own organizations without prior authorization
or interference by the state or any other entity.
GRI 407-1
Glossary WDI 7.2
Definitions
People, Expanded: Freedom
of association and collective
bargaining at risk
Gender Gender refers to the roles, behaviours, activities,
attributes and opportunities that any society considers
appropriate for girls and boys, and women and men.
Gender interacts with, but is different from, the binary
categories of biological sex
World Health
Organization
People, Core:
– Diversity & inclusion
– Training provided
People, Expanded: Pay gap
Prosperity, Core: Absolute
number and rate of
employment
Grievance
mechanism
System consisting of procedures, roles and rules for
receiving complaints and providing remedy.
Note: Effective grievance mechanisms are expected to be
legitimate, accessible, predictable, equitable, transparent,
rights-compatible and a source of continuous learning.
For operational-level mechanisms to be effective, they
are expected to be based on engagement and dialogue.
For a description of each of these criteria, see Guiding
Principle 31 in the United Nations (UN), “Guiding Principles
on Business and Human Rights, Implementing the United
Nations “Protect, Respect and Remedy” Framework”, 2011
GRI 408-1
Glossary
People, Expanded: Human
rights review, grievance impact
and modern slavery
Health
promotion
Process of enabling people to increase control over and
improve their health.
Note 1: The terms “health promotion”, “well-being” and
“wellness” are often used interchangeably.
Note 2: This definition comes from the World Health
Organization (WHO), “Ottawa Charter for Health
Promotion”, 1986
GRI 403-9 (2018),
Glossary
OSHAS 2018
People, Core: Health & safety
Highconsequence
work-related
injury
Work-related injury that results in a fatality or in an
injury from which the worker cannot, does not, or is
not expected to recover fully to pre-injury health status
within 6 months.
GRI 403-9 (2018),
Glossary
People, Core: Health & safety
High-potential
work-related
incident
Work-related incident with a high probability of causing
a high-consequence injury.
Note: Examples of high-potential incidents might
include incidents involving malfunctioning equipment,
explosions, or vehicle collisions with a high probability
of causing a high-consequence injury.
GRI 403-9 (2018),
Glossary
People, Core: Health & safety
Human rights
review
Formal or documented assessment process that
applies a set of human rights performance criteria.
GRI 412-1
Glossary
People, Expanded: Human
rights review, grievance impact
& modern slavery
Incident Occurrence arising out of, or in the course of, work that
could or does result in injury and ill health.
Note 1 to entry: An incident where injury and ill health
occurs is sometimes referred to as an “accident”.
Note 2 to entry: An incident where no injury and ill
health occurs, but has the potential to do so, may be
referred to as a “near-miss” “near-hit” or “close call”.
Note 3 to entry: Although there can be one or more
nonconformities related to an incident, an incident can
also occur where there is no nonconformity.
ISO 45001:2018 People, Core: Health & Safety
People, Expanded: Monetized
impacts of work-related
incidents on organization
Lifestyle
management
Lifestyle management includes supporting employees
with psychological safety, encouraging health
assessments, physical and emotional health and wellbeing, stress management, social connectedness,
mindfulness, emotional resilience, making healthy food
and physical activity choices easier and supporting
smokers to quit.
Embankment
Project, EPIC
Report (Page: 47)
People, Expanded: Well-being
Living wage The provision of wages that are “enough to meet basic
needs and to provide some discretionary income”.
In general terms, a living wage is the minimum income
necessary for a worker and their family to meet basic
needs, including some discretionary income. In many
cases, a living wage is considered to be higher than the
minimum wage set by national laws.
Shift, “The Human
Rights
Opportunity”, July
2018, p 10
People, Expanded: Living Wage
Local minimum
wage
Minimum compensation for employment per hour, or
other unit of time, allowed under law.
Note: Some countries have numerous minimum
wages, such as by state or province or by employment
category.
GRI 202-1
Glossary
People, Core: Wage Level
People, Core:
Risk for incidents of child,
forced or compulsory labour
Other
indicators of
diversity
Indicator of diversity for which the organization gathers
data. Examples of indicators of diversity can include
age, ancestry and ethnic origin, citizenship, creed,
disability and gender.
GRI Disclosure
405-1 Glossary
People, Core:
– Diversity & Inclusion
– Pay equality
People, Expanded: Pay Gap
Recordable
work-related
injury or ill
health
Work-related injury or ill health that results in any of the
following: death, days away from work, restricted work or
transfer to another job, medical treatment beyond first aid,
or loss of consciousness; or significant injury or ill health
diagnosed by a physician or other licensed healthcare
professional, even if it does not result in death, days
away from work, restricted work or job transfer, medical
treatment beyond first aid, or loss of consciousness
GRI 403-10 (2018)
Glossary
People, Expanded: Well-being
Supplier Organization or person that provides a product or
service used in the supply chain of the reporting
organization.
Note 1: A supplier is further characterized by a genuine
direct or indirect commercial relationship with the
organization.
Note 2: Examples of suppliers can include, but are
not limited to: brokers, consultants, contractors,
Distributors, Franchisees or licensees, Home workers,
Independent contractors, Manufacturers, primary
Producers, Sub-contractors, wholesalers.
GRI 408-1
Glossary
People, Core: Risk for incidents
of child, forced or compulsory
labour
People, Expanded: Human
rights review, grievance impact
& modern slavery
Training Training refers to:
– All types of vocational training and instruction
– Paid educational leave provided by an organization
for its employees
– Training or education pursued externally paid for in
whole or in part by an organization
– Training on specific topics, reskilling of employees
as per market requirements
Training does not include on-site coaching by supervisors.
GRI 404-1
Guidance
People, Core: Training Provided
People, Expanded: Monetized
Impacts of Training
Unfilled
positions
If a skilled position is vacant for a period of 90 days and
above, then it is considered to be “unfilled”.
Expert judgement People, Expanded: Number of
unfilled skilled positions
Worker Person who performs work.
Note 1: The term “workers” includes, but is not limited
to, employees.
Note 2: Further examples of workers include interns,
apprentices, self-employed persons and persons
working for organizations other than the reporting
organization, e.g. for suppliers
GRI 403-9 (2018)
Glossary
People, Core: Health & Safety
People, Expanded: Well-being
Work-related
injury or ill
health
Negative impacts on health arising from exposure to
hazards at work.
Note 1: This definition is based on the International
Labour Organization (ILO), Guidelines on Occupational
Safety and Health Management Systems, ILO-OSH
2001, 2001.
Note 2: “Ill health” indicates damage to health and
includes diseases, illnesses and disorders. The terms
“disease”, “illness” and “disorder” are often used
interchangeably and refer to conditions with specific
symptoms and diagnoses.
Note 3: Work-related injuries and ill health are those
that arise from exposure to hazards at work. Other
types of incident can occur that are not connected with
the work itself. For example, the following incidents are
not considered to be work related:
– A worker suffers a heart attack while at work that is
unconnected with work;
– A worker driving to or from work is injured in a car
accident (where driving is not part of the work and
where the transport has not been organized by the
employer);
– A worker with epilepsy has a seizure at work that is
unconnected with work.
Note 4: Traveling for work: Injuries and ill health that
occur while a worker is traveling are work related
if, at the time of the injury or ill health, the worker
was engaged in work activities “in the interest of the
employer”. Examples of such activities include traveling
to and from customer contacts; conducting job tasks;
and entertaining or being entertained to transact,
discuss, or promote business (at the direction of the
employer).
Working at home: Injuries and ill health that occur
when working at home are work related if the injury or
ill health occurs while the worker is performing work
at home and the injury or ill health is directly related to
the performance of work rather than the general home
environment or setting.
Mental illness: A mental illness is considered to be
work related if it has been notified voluntarily by the
worker and is supported by an opinion from a licensed
healthcare professional with appropriate training and
experience stating that the illness is work related.
GRI 403-9 (2018),
Glossary
People, Core: Health & safety